
===== PAGE 1 =====
United States 
Department 
of Agriculture
Economic 
Research 
Service
June 2009
Access to Affordable and 
 Nutritious Food:  Measuring and 
Understanding Food  Deserts and 
Their Consequences 
Report to Congress

===== PAGE 2 =====
This report was prepared by the Economic Research Service (ERS), the Food 
and Nutrition Service (FNS), and the Cooperative State Research, Education, 
and Extension Service (CSREES) of the U.S. Department of Agriculture under 
the direction of Michele Ver Ploeg of ERS. Contributors include Vince Breneman, 
Tracey Farrigan, Karen Hamrick, David Hopkins, Phil Kaufman, Biing-Hwan Lin, 
Mark Nord, Travis Smith, and Ryan Williams of ERS; Kelly Kinnison, Carol Olander, 
and Anita Singh of FNS; Elizabeth Tuckermanty of CSREES; Rachel Krantz-Kent 
and Curtis Polen of the Bureau of Labor Statistics; and Howard McGowan and 
Stella Kim of the U.S. Census Bureau.

===== PAGE 3 =====
United States
Department
of Agriculture
Report to Congress
Access to Affordable and 
Nutritious Food
Measuring and Understanding Food 
Deserts and Their Consequences
June 2009
Abstract
The Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 directed the U.S. Department of 
Agriculture to conduct a 1-year study to assess the extent of areas with limited access 
to affordable and nutritious food, identify characteristics and causes of such areas, 
consider how limited access affects local populations, and outline recommendations 
to address the problem.  This report presents the ﬁ ndings of the study, which include 
results from two conferences of national and international authorities on food deserts and 
a set of commissioned research studies done in cooperation with the National Poverty 
Center at the University of Michigan.  It also includes reviews of existing literature, a 
national-level assessment of access to supermarkets and large grocery stores, analysis 
of the economic and public health effects of limited access, and a discussion of existing 
policy interventions.  The study uses a variety of analytical methods and data to assess 
the extent of limited access to affordable and nutritious food and characteristics of areas 
with limited access.  Overall, ﬁ ndings show that a small percentage of consumers are 
constrained in their ability to access affordable nutritious food because they live far 
from a supermarket or large grocery store and do not have easy access to transportation. 
Urban core areas with limited food access are characterized by higher levels of racial 
segregation and greater income inequality.  In small-town and rural areas with limited 
food access, the lack of transportation infrastructure is the most deﬁ ning characteristic. 
Existing data and research are insufﬁ cient to conclusively determine whether areas with 
limited access have inadequate access.
Acknowledgments
This report was prepared by the Economic Research Service (ERS), the Food and 
Nutrition Service (FNS), and the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension 
Service (CSREES) of the U.S. Department of Agriculture under the direction of Michele 
Ver Ploeg of ERS. Contributors include Vince Breneman, Tracey Farrigan, Karen 
Hamrick, David Hopkins, Phil Kaufman, Biing-Hwan Lin, Mark Nord, Travis Smith, 
and Ryan Williams of ERS; Kelly Kinnison, Carol Olander, and Anita Singh of FNS; 
Elizabeth Tuckermanty of CSREES; Rachel Krantz-Kent and Curtis Polen of the Bureau 
of Labor Statistics; and Howard McGowan and Stella Kim of the U.S. Census Bureau.

===== PAGE 4 =====
ii
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Contents
Summary 
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iii
Chapter 1 
Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Chapter 2 
The Extent of Limited Food Access 
 
in the United States. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Chapter 3 
The Interaction of Neighborhood 
 
and Household Characteristics in Explaining 
 
Areas With Limited Access  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Chapter 4 
Food Access and Its Relationship to Diet 
 
and Health Outcomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Chapter 5 
Food Access and Its Relationship to Food Choice. . . . . . . . 61
Chapter 6 
The Economics of Supermarket and 
 
Grocery Store Location  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Chapter 7 
Community Food Projects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
Chapter 8 
Policy Options  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
Chapter 9 
Future Research Needs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
Appendix A Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food:  
 
Understanding Food Deserts Workshop Agenda . . . . . . . . 123
Appendix B Measures of Access Used in Food Desert 
 
and Related Studies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
Appendix C Methods and Supporting Tables and Figures 
 
for Measuring the Extent of Limited Access in
 
the United States. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131
Appendix D  Examples of Community Food Projects 
 
by Type of Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 141

===== PAGE 5 =====
iii
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Summary
Increases in obesity and diet-related diseases are major public health 
problems.  These problems may be worse in some U.S. communities because 
access to affordable and nutritious foods is difﬁ cult.  Previous studies suggest 
that some areas and households have easier access to fast food restaurants 
and convenience stores but limited access to supermarkets.  Limited access 
to nutritious food and relatively easier access to less nutritious food may 
be linked to poor diets and, ultimately, to obesity and diet-related diseases.  
Congress, in the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, directed the 
U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to conduct a 1-year study to assess 
the extent of the problem of limited access, identify characteristics and 
causes, consider the effects of limited access on local populations, and outline 
recommendations to address the problem.
This report presents the ﬁ ndings of the study, which include results from two 
conferences of national and international authorities on food deserts and a 
set of commissioned research studies done in cooperation with the National 
Poverty Center at the University of Michigan.  It also includes reviews of 
existing literature, a national-level assessment of access to supermarkets and 
large grocery stores, analysis of the economic and public health effects of 
limited access, and a discussion of existing policy interventions.  A variety of 
analytical methods and data are used to assess the extent of limited access to 
affordable and nutritious food and characteristics of areas with limited access. 
Findings
Access to a supermarket or large grocery store is a problem for a small 
percentage of households.  Results indicate that some consumers are 
constrained in their ability to access affordable nutritious food because they 
live far from a supermarket or large grocery store and do not have easy access 
to transportation.  Three pieces of evidence corroborate this conclusion:   
Of all households in the United States, 2.3 million, or 2.2 percent, live 
• 
more than a mile from a supermarket and do not have access to a vehicle. 
An additional 3.4 million households, or 3.2 percent of all households, 
live between one-half to 1 mile and do not have access to a vehicle.
Area-based measures of access show that 23.5 million people live in 
• 
low-income areas (areas where more than 40 percent of the population 
has income at or below 200 percent of Federal poverty thresholds) 
that are more than 1 mile from a supermarket or large grocery store.  
However, not all of these 23.5 million people have low income.  If 
estimates are restricted to consider only low-income people in 
low-income areas, then 11.5 million people, or 4.1 percent of the total 
U.S. population, live in low-income areas more than 1 mile from a 
supermarket.  
Data on time use and travel mode show that people living in low-income 
• 
areas with limited access spend signiﬁ cantly more time (19.5 minutes) 
traveling to a grocery store than the national average (15 minutes).  
However, 93 percent of those who live in low-income areas with 

===== PAGE 6 =====
iv
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
limited access traveled to the grocery store in a vehicle they or another 
household member drove.   
 
These distance and time-based measures are national estimates that 
do not consider differences between rural and urban areas in terms of 
distance, travel patterns, and retail market coverage. 
Urban core areas with limited food access are characterized by higher levels 
of racial segregation and greater income inequality.  In small-town and rural 
areas with limited food access, the lack of transportation infrastructure is the 
most deﬁ ning characteristic. 
These area- or distance-based results are in line with a nationally 
representative survey of U.S. households conducted in 2001.  Responses 
to direct questions about food access show that nearly 6 percent of all U.S. 
households did not always have the food they wanted or needed because 
of access-related problems.  More than half of these households also 
lacked enough money for food. It is unclear whether food access or income 
constraints were relatively greater barriers for these households.  
Supermarkets and large grocery stores have lower prices than smaller 
stores.  A key concern for people who live in areas with limited access is 
that they rely on small grocery or convenience stores that may not carry 
all the foods needed for a healthy diet and that may offer these foods and 
other food at higher prices.  This report examines whether prices of similar 
foods vary across retail outlet types and whether the prices actually paid 
by consumers vary across income levels. These analyses use proprietary 
household-level data that contain information on food items purchased by 
approximately 40,000 demographically representative households across the 
United States. Results from these analyses show that when consumers shop 
at convenience stores, prices paid for similar goods are, on average, higher 
than at supermarkets.  
Low-income households shop where food prices are lower, when they 
can.  Findings also show that food purchases at convenience stores make up 
a small portion of total food expenditures (2 to 3 percent) for low-income 
consumers.  Low- and middle-income households are more likely to purchase 
food at supercenters, where prices are lower.  Administrative data on SNAP 
beneﬁ t redemptions from 2008 show that 86 percent of SNAP beneﬁ ts were 
redeemed at supermarkets or large grocery stores.  Research that considers 
the prices paid for the same food across household income levels indicates 
that while some of the very poorest households—those earning less than 
$8,000 per year—may pay between 0.5 percent and 1.3 percent more for 
their groceries than households earning slightly more, households earning 
between $8,000 and $30,000 tend to pay the lowest prices for groceries, 
whereas higher income households pay signiﬁ cantly higher prices.  
The study also examined food shopping behavior and the types of food 
purchased for SNAP participants and other low-income households.  Data 
from the 1996/1997 NFSPS show that SNAP participants were, on average, 
1.8 miles from the nearest supermarket.  However, the average number of 
miles both SNAP participants and eligible nonparticipants traveled to the 
store most often used was 4.9 miles.  These same data show that SNAP 

===== PAGE 7 =====
v
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
participants who did not shop at supermarkets purchased less noncanned 
fruit, noncanned vegetables, and milk than SNAP participants who shopped 
frequently at a supermarket.  
Easy access to all food, rather than lack of access to speciﬁ c healthy foods, 
may be a more important factor in explaining increases in obesity.  Many 
studies ﬁ nd a correlation between limited food access and lower intake of 
nutritious foods.  Data and methods used in these studies, however, are not 
sufﬁ ciently robust to establish a causal link between access and nutritional 
outcomes.  That is, other explanations cannot be eliminated as the cause of 
lower intake.  A few studies have examined food intake before and after 
healthy food options become available (either within existing stores or 
because new stores opened).  The ﬁ ndings are mixed—some show a small 
but positive increase in consumption of fruits and vegetables, while others 
show no effect.  
The causal pathways linking limited access to nutritious food to measures 
of overweight like Body Mass Index (BMI) and obesity are not well 
understood.  Several studies ﬁ nd that proximity of fast food restaurants 
and supermarkets are correlated with BMI and obesity.  But increased 
consumption of such healthy foods as fruits and vegetables, low-fat milk, 
or whole grains does not necessarily lead to lower BMI.  Consumers 
may not substitute away from less healthy foods when they increase their 
consumption of healthy foods.  Easy access to all food, rather than lack 
of access to speciﬁ c healthy foods, may be a more important factor in 
explaining increases in BMI and obesity.
Understanding the market conditions that contribute to differences in 
access to food is critical to the design of policy interventions that may 
be effective in reducing access limitations.  Access to affordable and 
nutritious food depends on supply (availability) and consumer demand. 
Consumer behavior, preferences, and other factors related to the demand 
for some foods may account for differences in the types of foods offered 
across different areas.  Food retailer behavior and supply-side issues such 
as higher costs to developing stores in underserved areas may also explain 
variation across areas in which foods are offered and what stores offer them.  
If high development costs serve as a barrier to entry for supermarkets in 
some areas with low access, then subsidy programs or restructured zoning 
policies may be effective solutions.  If consumer demand factors, such as 
inadequate knowledge of the nutritional beneﬁ ts of speciﬁ c foods, contribute 
to differences in access by reducing demand, then a public health campaign 
may be a preferred strategy.  Several local and State-level efforts are 
underway that could provide the basis for a better understanding of the types 
of interventions that may work best.  
Food has been used as a tool for community development.  Projects such 
as farmers’ markets, community gardens, promotion of culturally speciﬁ c 
foods for ethnic minorities and Native Americans, local food production 
and promotion, youth agricultural and culinary training programs, and many 
other types of programs have all been implemented in a variety of settings, 
both urban and rural.  USDA’s Community Food Projects Competitive Grant 
program has much experience in funding and nurturing such programs.  

===== PAGE 8 =====
vi
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
The current state of research is insufﬁ cient to conclusively determine 
whether some areas with limited access have inadequate access. Future 
research should consider improved methods to measure access levels, 
availability, and prices of foods faced by individuals and areas.  More 
research is needed to understand how access, availability and price affect 
the shopping and consumption behaviors of consumers.  Data linking 
information on the types of foods consumers purchase and eat with measures 
of consumers’ levels of access and the prices they face could help explain the 
economic consequences of food access.  Studies that use improved methods 
and data to determine how food access affects diet, obesity, and other health 
outcomes are also needed to help explain the health consequences of food 
access.   
Methods
To conduct the analysis of the extent of food deserts, a comprehensive 
database was developed that identiﬁ ed the location of supermarkets and 
large grocery stores within the continental United States.  Food access was 
estimated as the distance to the nearest supermarket or large grocery store.  
The analysis was reﬁ ned by examining households without vehicles and 
speciﬁ c socio-demographic subpopulations drawn from the 2000 Census.  
Multivariate statistical analysis was applied to identify the key determinants 
of areas with low access to supermarkets and large grocery stores. 
Research also examined national-level data on questions of household 
food adequacy and access from the 2001 Current Population Survey. This 
information was complemented with national-level data on time spent 
traveling to grocery stores from the 2003-07 American Time Use Survey.  To 
consider the economic consequences of limited access, ERS also analyzed 
demand for certain nutritious foods for a sample of participants in the 
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP, formerly the Food 
Stamp Program), using data from the National Food Stamp Program Survey 
(NFSPS) of 1996/1997.  Variation in prices for similar foods purchased at 
different store types, as indicated by hedonic models and data from the 2006 
Nielsen Homescan panel, was also estimated. 
ERS collaborated with other agencies and institutions to complete this 
study.  USDA’s Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) compiled information 
on an extensive body of work examining food access for SNAP and other 
low-income households.  USDA’s Cooperative State Research, Education, 
and Extension Service (CSREES) provided information on the Community 
Foods Projects and lessons learned in the administration of the projects. 
The national-level food desert analysis was complemented by a review of 
existing literature and the commissioning of additional studies by experts 
in the ﬁ eld.  A workshop held in October 2008 convened leading experts 
in the study of retail food and grocery store access, key stakeholders from 
community development organizations, grocery retailer organizations, other 
government agencies, congressional members and staff, and related public 
interest groups.  The workshop included presentations and panel discussions 
of such topics as deﬁ ning and describing dimensions of food deserts, 
implications of low access for food and nutrition assistance programs, 

===== PAGE 9 =====
vii
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
consequences of food deserts, and programs and policies to mitigate the 
adverse effects of food deserts.  
USDA, in cooperation with the National Poverty Center at the University of 
Michigan, commissioned several studies by experts in food access to better 
understand concepts of low access to affordable and nutritious foods and 
the degree to which access varies across different types of areas.  The intent 
of these papers was to describe characteristics of the food environment and 
the demographic, economic, and health conditions that typify areas with 
low food access and to compliment the national-level ﬁ ndings with more 
detailed and local-level information. Results from studies were presented in a 
conference. 
USDA, in cooperation with the Institute of Medicine of the National 
Academies, conducted a 2-day workshop in January 2009 on the public 
health implications of food deserts.  Workshop presentations covered 
methods for assessing and research ﬁ ndings on the impacts of food deserts on 
such outcomes as diet (including examination of speciﬁ c foods, such as fruit 
and vegetable consumption and intake of high-energy, low-nutrient foods), 
prevalence of obesity and overweight; and diseases associated with poor 
diets.  In addition, presentations covered promising strategies for mitigating 
the impacts of food deserts that have been suggested, implemented, or are in 
the planning stages.  The workshop provided the basis for the review of the 
public health literature.

===== PAGE 10 =====

===== PAGE 11 =====
1
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
CHAPTER 1
Introduction  
Increases in rates of obesity and related chronic diseases that may be linked 
with poor diets, such as diabetes and heart disease, are major public health 
concerns.  Some advocates, community leaders, and researchers are worried 
that these problems, and poor diets in general, may be more severe in certain 
poor and rural American communities because these areas have limited 
access to affordable and nutritious foods.  A primary concern is that some 
poor or rural areas do not have access to supermarkets, grocery stores, or 
other food retailers that offer the large variety of foods needed for a healthy 
diet (for example, fresh fruits and vegetables, whole grains, fresh dairy and 
meat products).  Instead, individuals in these areas may be more reliant on 
food retailers or fast food restaurants that only offer more limited varieties 
of foods.  It is hypothesized that the relative lack of access to full-service 
grocery stores and the easier access to fast and convenience foods may be 
linked to poor diets and, ultimately, to obesity and other diet-related diseases. 
It was this concern that led Congress, in the Food, Conservation, and Energy 
Act of 2008, (hereafter referred to as the 2008 Farm Bill) to direct the U.S. 
Department of Agriculture (USDA) to conduct a 1-year study of areas 
with limited access to affordable and nutritious food.  The 2008 Farm Bill 
directed USDA to assess the extent of the problem of limited access, identify 
characteristics and causes of limited access and the effects limited access 
has on local populations, and outline recommendations for addressing the 
causes and effects of limited access.  The USDA study was conducted by 
a team of researchers, policy analysts, and program leaders from USDA’s 
Food and Nutrition Service (FNS), Cooperative State Research, Education, 
and Extension Service (CSREES), and the Economic Research Service 
(ERS), which served as the lead agency.  This report provides the analysis 
and ﬁ ndings of the USDA study.  A number of information-gathering and 
data-analysis activities were conducted as part of the study.  Each of these 
activities and their purposes is described later in this introduction.1   
Deﬁ nitions, Concepts, and Background Literature
TThe language in the 2008 Farm Bill deﬁ ned a food desert as an “area in 
the United States with limited access to affordable and nutritious food, 
particularly such an area composed of predominantly lower income 
neighborhoods and communities” (Title VI, Sec. 7527).  In order to consider 
the extent of such areas, the following questions ﬁ rst need to be answered:
• What is affordable food and nutritious food?
• What does it mean to have (or not have) access to such food?
• Do individuals or do areas lack access?
The concern over food deserts is that some consumers have difﬁ culty 
accessing food retailers that offer affordable and nutritious food.2  The 
ease or difﬁ culty in getting to a food retailer depends on the location of the 
store in relationship to the consumer and the consumer’s travel patterns, the 
 
1One additional activity that is not 
further described in this report is the 
Workshop on Access to Affordable and 
Nutritious Foods:  Understanding Food 
Deserts held on October 9, 2008, in 
Washington, DC.  An agenda for this 
workshop is included in appendix A.
 
2We note that this study focuses 
on the ease at which households and 
individuals can get to stores that sell the 
foods they want at affordable prices.  
We do not focus on the related concept 
of food security, which measures 
whether households or individuals have 
access to enough food for an active, 
healthy life.  The concepts are clearly 
related, but, in general, food security 
measures focus less on physical access 
and more on whether a household 
can afford food.  For example, some 
individuals or households may have 
low food security but may live only 
one block from a large supermarket, so 
that physical access to food is less of 
a problem than whether the family can 
afford to buy the food.

===== PAGE 12 =====
2
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
consumer’s individual characteristics (e.g., income, car ownership, disability 
status), and neighborhood characteristics (e.g., the availability of public 
transportation, availability of sidewalks, and crime patterns in the area).  
Before considering how many people and places may be affected by limited 
access to affordable and nutritious food, one must ﬁ rst determine what is 
meant by “nutritious food” and “affordable,” and how access to affordable 
and nutritious foods can be measured.  
It may be easy to identify some foods as highly nutritious and others as 
much less nutritious, but the nutrition levels of most foods fall somewhere 
in between.  Those foods that may be easily identiﬁ ed as highly nutritious 
are available in different forms (fresh, frozen, canned, in prepared sauces 
or dishes).  They can also be purchased at many food outlets, including 
those that many consider lacking in nutritious foods, such as fast food 
restaurants.  It is likely that even the smallest food retailers stock foods that 
have nutritional merits; however, it is also likely that some retailers may 
offer very few of these options.  No one food can fulﬁ ll the recommendations 
for a healthy diet.  So measuring what “nutritious” food is and where it can 
be found must necessarily encompass a broad array of foods and sources of 
foods.    
Affordability of food refers to the price of a particular food and the relative 
price of alternative or substitute foods.  Affordability of food is also impacted 
by the budget constraints faced by consumers, who must consider not only 
the prices of different foods to meet their food needs, but also the prices 
of other necessities (e.g., housing, clothing, and transportation).  USDA 
provides guidance on national standards for nutritious diets at various 
costs levels—the Thrifty, Low-cost, Moderate-cost and Liberal Food Plans 
(Carlson et al., 2007a; Carlson et al., 2007b).  Within each plan is a market 
basket of foods in quantities that reﬂ ect current dietary recommendations, 
food composition data, food prices, and actual consumption patterns.   
According to the Low-cost Food Plan, a family of four with two adults 
(age 19 to 50) and two children (ages 6 to 8 and 9 to 11) could consume a 
nutritious diet for $175.60 per week (USDA, 2009).
In addition to considering food prices, consumers also consider travel 
and time costs in deciding where to shop and what to buy.  There are also 
monetary and time costs in preparing and serving food, as well as cleaning 
up.  The time costs of these activities may affect consumer decisions about 
whether to shop for and prepare a home-cooked meal, buy products that 
require less preparation time, or eat a meal prepared by a restaurant.  
Measuring access to affordable and nutritious food is an enormous data 
collection task that requires information on all the food retailers in a 
neighborhood or within the reach of the consumer, the types and prices of 
food sold in these stores, and a measure of the quality of the food.  Many 
studies approximate the availability of these foods and a wide range of other 
foods by using the existence of supermarkets and grocery stores, arguing that 
these stores are known to carry a variety of foods and have many options 
for “nutritious foods,” such as fresh, frozen, and canned, and carry them at 
the lowest prices.  But focusing only on supermarkets and larger grocery 
stores is likely to underestimate the availability of healthy foods since some 
of these foods are also available at small grocery stores, convenience stores, 

===== PAGE 13 =====
3
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
pharmacies, dollar stores, farmers’ markets, and restaurants.  There is also 
some evidence of substitutability in stores—that is, areas without large 
chain supermarkets are often served with independent, and often smaller, 
grocery stores (Neckerman et al., 2009; Powell, 2009).  These smaller stores 
may have adequate and affordable food choices, so that in ignoring them, 
researchers may underestimate the food that is available in those areas.  
The limitations of considering only supermarkets and large grocery stores 
in measuring the availability of food are well recognized in the literature on 
food access.  This has led to more localized studies that collect an extensive 
amount of data on the food environment.  Some studies collect additional 
information about the locations of food retailers other than supermarkets, 
such as farmers’ markets, meat markets, bakeries, or veggie carts (see, 
for example, Neckerman et al., 2009).  Other studies actually measure a 
store’s contents to see if  “healthy foods” are sold, how much shelf space 
is dedicated to them, and in which forms they are sold (e.g., fresh, frozen, 
or canned; low-fat or regular) (see, for example, Rose et al., 2009; Sharkey 
and Horel, 2009).  Standardized tools for conducting such studies have also 
been developed and tested, such as the Nutrition Environment Measures 
Survey (NEMS) (http://www.sph.emory.edu/NEMS/.)  Such extensive data 
collections have been conducted on more localized levels, for example, in 
New Orleans, New York City, and six rural counties in Texas.  But because 
these efforts require such intensive data collection and resources, they are not 
easily conducted on a national level.  
Studies of food access have also measured the availability and prices of 
foods in USDA’s Thrifty Food Plan (TFP) in stores as a standardized way 
to compare availability and affordability of foods in geographic areas (for 
example, Block and Kouba, 2005; Hendrickson et al., 2006; Mantovani et al., 
1997; Rose et al., 2009).  Such uses of the TFP provide an absolute measure 
of availability and price (as opposed to a relative measure) and allow 
aggregation across store types (Bitler and Haider, 2009).    
Once the availability and price of food has been measured, studies of food 
access typically then measure how easy it is for consumers to access the 
food.  The ease or difﬁ culty of food access has been measured many ways.4  
One common method is to measure distance from consumers’ residences 
to the nearest food retailer that offers healthy and affordable foods (often to 
supermarkets or large grocery stores).5  Distances in sparsely populated areas 
are often not directly comparable to distance in densely populated areas.  As 
a result, many studies consider access in rural areas separately from access 
in suburban and urban areas.  “Walkable” distance measures have often been 
used to characterize access in urban areas.  The deﬁ nition of such a distance 
is often 1 kilometer or about a half mile (app. table B.1).  Similar concepts 
for less densely populated suburban and rural areas have not been applied, 
but often a distance is designated to distinguish access limitations.  For 
example, areas more than 10 miles from a supermarket have been called food 
deserts (Blanchard and Lyson, 2006; Morton and Blanchard, 2007).  These 
designations of what may be considered an “acceptable” distance to a food 
source in less densely populated areas are somewhat arbitrary, especially 
considering that without a car, any distance of more than a mile or so could 
be considered unacceptably far.  
 
4Appendix table B.1 summarizes the 
measures of access to health foods used 
by over 30 studies.  Figure B.1 shows 
the locations of these studies.  
 
5Distance is usually measured from 
the centroid of an area (e.g., ZIP Code, 
census tract, or block) to the nearest 
supermarket. 

===== PAGE 14 =====
4
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Distance is almost always measured as distance from a residential area 
to a store, assuming home to store travel is the way most people access 
supermarkets.  But people do not just travel from home to store.  They travel 
to work, school, church, and beyond and often purchase food on the way.  
Using an access measure that only considers distance from home is likely to 
underestimate the options available for food shopping.   
Measures of distance to the nearest food retailer do not consider whether 
the consumer has other choices that can offer better products or lower 
prices.  Thus, many studies have tried to capture the amount of choice 
consumers have in their measures of food access.  Apparicio et al. (2007) 
and Sparks et al. (2009) calculate the distance to three different stores, or 
the distance to three different chain supermarkets to add a dimension of the 
level of competition in an area.  Density measures that count the number of 
stores in a certain geographical area are also often used to describe the food 
environment.  For example, measures such as the number of supermarkets, 
fast food restaurants, or convenience stores per resident within a census tract 
or the ratio of fast food restaurants to supermarkets per capita have been used 
to describe food environments within a geographic area (see, for example, 
Gallagher, 2007 and 2006).  Density measures add richness to a measure of 
the food environment by looking beyond distance.  Further, relatively higher 
densities of a store type could be a signal of the level of competition among 
that type of store and may signal lower prices. 
A problem with both distance and density measures, however, is that they 
only measure “potential access,” and not “realized access.”6  Potential access 
shows where consumers could possibly shop, while realized access shows 
where consumers actually shop.  A consumer that does not care to eat at 
fast food restaurants or convenience stores may have high access to these 
stores but may pass by them on the way to a supermarket that is farther 
away.  And even if the concentration of convenience stores is higher in some 
neighborhoods, most of the food shopping could be conducted at larger 
supermarkets.  For example, Broda et al. (forthcoming) ﬁ nd that compared 
with higher income families, low-income families spend slightly more of 
their food budget at convenience stores, which offer prices that are, on 
average, greater than those in traditional grocery stores.  However, the study 
also found that compared with higher income families, low-income families 
spend a greater share of total expenditures at supercenters, where lower 
prices almost completely offset the higher prices at convenience stores.  To 
further illustrate this point, data show that, on average, SNAP participants 
lived 1.8 miles from the nearest supermarket but traveled 4.9 miles to the 
foodstore they most often used (Cole, 1997).  (More details on both of these 
ﬁ ndings are provided in chapter 5).
Area-based versus individual based concepts of access
Studies that use area-based measures of access, either distance or density, 
usually focus only on areas with high concentrations of vulnerable 
populations.7  Examining only areas in which a relatively high proportion of 
poor people live, for example, will miss many poor people who live in less 
poor areas, but who may also have limited access.8  Further, not everyone 
who lives in low-income areas is poor.  There will certainly be people who 
live in a low-income area with limited access but who themselves have 
 
6This helpful distinction is made by 
Sharkey and Horel, 2009. 
 
7Most studies consider only areas 
with high concentrations of poor peo-
ple.  Some also consider areas with low 
vehicle ownership rates, high concen-
trations of elderly, and the availability 
of public transportation.  See Necker-
man et al., 2009, for more details.  
 
8A separate concern is for those who 
are too poor to buy food regardless of 
how accessible it is.  USDA’s House-
hold Food Security in the United States 
series reports the percent of Americans 
who do not have access to enough food 
for an active, healthy life for all house-
hold members.  In 2007, 11.1 percent 
of households were food insecure at 
some time during the year and about 
4.1 percent of all households had very 
low food security some time during the 
year (Nord et al., 2008).

===== PAGE 15 =====
5
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
adequate resources to travel to a supermarket regularly.  Ownership of, 
or easy access to, a motorized vehicle may be the best marker of access 
regardless of whether someone lives in a poor area or not.  The majority of 
U.S. households own cars (89.7 percent).9  Vehicle ownership rates among 
those living in rural areas (94.6 percent) are higher than among those living 
in urban areas (87.8 percent).  Those with low incomes are less likely to own 
a vehicle, but time use and travel mode data reported in Chapter 2 show that 
most people, even low-income people, take their own vehicles or drive with 
someone else to do their grocery shopping.
The distinction between individual-level access and area-based access has 
signiﬁ cant implications for measuring the size of the problem of limited 
access—that is, the number of people with limited access.  Chapter 2 
illustrates this.  The distinction also has implications for the design of 
policies that may be most cost effective in reducing the problem.  For 
example, if those people who have low incomes and limited access are 
scattered throughout areas with lower concentrations of poor people, then 
opening up a new supermarket may be less effective than policies that make 
individual or group transportation to stores less expensive (for example, bus/
transit subsidies, store shuttle services, or improved bus routes).  However, 
if people with low income and low access are concentrated in certain areas, 
then ﬁ nding a way to open a new store or improve the variety of foods 
carried in existing stores in that area may be more effective.
The bulk of studies of food access ﬁ nd relative differences across areas 
in access to some types of food retailers and foods.10  Researchers have 
documented the inequality of access to supermarkets in urban inner city 
areas (Donohue, 1997), while others have focused on differences in access 
to supermarkets in poor versus nonpoor areas (O’Conner and Abell, 1992; 
Cotterill and Franklin, 1995; Pike, 2000).  Moore and Diez Roux (2006) 
investigated racial disparities in the number and variety of grocery stores 
in neighborhoods.  Zenk et al. (2005) compared distances to the nearest 
supermarket among poor White and poor non-White households.  Extending 
that approach, Gallagher (2007 and 2006) compared differences in the 
ratio of supermarkets to other foodstores in a neighborhood in Detroit and 
Chicago.  More recently, Neckerman et al. (2009) examined the retail food 
environment in New York City.  They considered the characteristics of 
households, such as race, income, and forms of available transportation, 
including vehicle ownership or access to mass transit, as factors affecting a 
household’s foodstore access.  Findings show lower access to supermarkets 
and other healthy food stores for neighborhoods composed primarily of 
African-Americans, where populations were heavily reliant on mass transit 
for transportation.  
While there may be relative disparities in access to speciﬁ c types of food 
retailers, there is not general agreement on whether areas with relatively 
less access have inadequate access to food.  That is—there is not a widely 
agreed standard above which an area has “adequate” access to affordable and 
nutritious food and below which, an area has “inadequate” access to food.  
To draw such a distinction would require more systematic consideration of 
what inadequate access to affordable and nutritious food means, which would 
require collection of very detailed data on food availability and price.  That 
does not mean that there are not areas with inadequate access.  The research 
  9See chapter 3 for details on house-
hold access to vehicles.
 
10 Larson et al. (2009) (Not in refer-
ences) reviewed 54 studies of dispari-
ties in access to healthy food. 

===== PAGE 16 =====
6
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
highlighted above certainly shows some areas may have inadequate access.  
Rather, the point here is that the data and methods that have been used to 
document relative differences cannot be implemented easily on a national 
level to make a national-level distinction.   
Absolute standards of similar concepts, such as poverty or food insecurity, 
have been made and are commonly used in describing conditions of the 
U.S. economy and the well-being of U.S. households and in making public 
policy.  While these absolute distinctions are certainly not universally agreed 
upon, there is a much deeper and richer literature from which a concept like 
poverty can be deﬁ ned and measured than there is for food deserts.
Report Outline
A variety of data and methods was used to assess the extent of limited access 
to affordable and nutritious food, including both individual measures of 
access and area-based measures of access.  Responses to a national-level 
household survey of food adequacy and access were analyzed, as were 
data estimating differences among households in the time spent traveling 
to grocery stores and the travel mode used.  To determine the extent of 
areas with limited access, a comprehensive database was developed to 
identify the location of supermarkets and large grocery stores within the 
continental United States.  Food access was estimated as the distance to 
the nearest supermarket or large grocery store, which is used as a proxy for 
the availability of affordable and nutritious food.  The analysis speciﬁ cally 
considered distance to the nearest supermarket for low-income populations 
and for households without access to a vehicle.  Differences in rural, urban, 
and areas in between were considered.  These results are presented in 
Chapter 2.  Chapter 3 uses the same data on the location of supermarkets to 
analyze the household and neighborhood characteristics that distinguish areas 
with low access from areas with better access.  The novel contribution of 
these analyses is that they are national in scope and combine two databases 
on supermarket and grocery store location.  
Supermarkets are not the only sources of healthy and affordable foods.  
Many smaller scale sources may be used by those who are underserved by 
supermarkets.  However, a complete assessment of the food environment of 
every area in the United States is an enormous task that is beyond the scope 
of this study.  Instead, USDA cooperated with the National Poverty Center 
(NPC) at the University of Michigan to commission six studies of the food 
environment at more localized levels.  These studies provide more detail on 
the food environment in New York City; Indianapolis, Indiana; New Orleans, 
Louisiana; Salt Lake County, Utah; the Brazos Valley in rural Texas; and 
Portland, Oregon.  Methods and ﬁ ndings from these studies, along with the 
national level analyses, are discussed in Chapters 2 and 3.11  
People who live in areas with limited access may be more prone to poor diets 
and have poor health outcomes, such as obesity or diabetes, because they 
lack access to healthy foods and may have too easy access to less healthy 
foods.  Chapter 4 considers the extent of knowledge on the relationship 
between limited access and diet and health outcomes.  This chapter draws 
heavily upon a workshop summary of the Institute of Medicine (IOM) 
and the National Academies.  This workshop, sponsored by ERS, was 
 
11Drafts of these papers and an 
agenda for a conference that featured 
the papers are available on the NPC 
website: www.npc.umich.edu/news/
events/food-access/index.php.  Final 
versions of these papers and a summary 
of the papers will accompany the ﬁ nal 
version of this report.

===== PAGE 17 =====
7
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
conducted on January 26-27, 2009.  It included sessions on measuring 
access; methodological challenges in assessing causal relationships between 
food access and diet and health outcomes; reviews of existing knowledge 
about the links between access and diet and health outcomes; and promising 
strategies for mitigating the impacts of food deserts that have been suggested, 
implemented, or are in the planning stages.  A workshop summary will be 
published in June 2009. 
Populations that live in areas with limited access to affordable and nutritious 
food may adjust their food shopping behaviors and diets based on the food 
environment in their area.  These adjustments could be due to the lack of 
availability of some foods or to the relative prices of different foods offered 
from different food retailers.  Chapter 5 considers how food access relates 
to food choice—that is, whether consumers in areas with limited access 
face higher prices for similar goods and whether they have different food 
purchasing behaviors.  Comparisons of the prices that consumers paid for 
similar foods (milk, ready-to-eat cereal, and bread) purchased at different 
retail outlets (supermarkets and grocery stores vs. convenience stores) 
are made using hedonic price models.  Differences in the prices offered 
at different retail outlets could lead consumers to adjust where they shop 
and what they purchase.  The chapter also considers shopping behavior for 
populations with limited access, which can further the understanding of the 
adjustments that consumers make to different prices and retail availability.  
A summary of a body of work conducted by FNS on the shopping patterns 
of participants of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP—
formerly called the Food Stamp Program) is provided in the chapter.  ERS 
also analyzed how SNAP participants’ expenditures on foods in several food 
groups (e.g., canned and noncanned fruits and vegetables) varied by self-
reported measures of access to supermarkets.  Spending on these food groups 
by people with relatively easy access to supermarkets is compared with 
spending by those with less access to supermarkets.  Finally, ﬁ ndings from 
a study conducted by ERS and external researchers on whether poor people 
pay more for similar foods relative to higher income people are integrated.   
Economic and market conditions may contribute to the existence of food 
deserts.  The costs facing food retail businesses and the choices available 
to consumers could both account for differences among stores in where 
they choose to locate.  Chapter 6 provides an economic framework for 
understanding supply and demand for food and factors that may account for 
difference in access to food retailers across different areas.  USDA, through 
NPC, contracted with two economists, Marianne Bitler and Steven Haider, to 
provide an economic framework for understanding food access issues.  The 
chapter draws heavily upon this paper (Bitler and Haider, 2009).  
In addition to administering SNAP and other nutritional assistance programs, 
USDA administers programs to improve food security in low-income 
communities.  States and localities have also implemented programs to 
increase access to affordable and nutritious food for underserved populations. 
Private retailers have responded to the needs of low-income and bargain 
food shoppers.  Chapter 7 describes USDA’s Community Foods Project 
Competitive Grants Program and lessons learned from this program.  Chapter 
8 highlights several programs that have been implemented by States and 

===== PAGE 18 =====
8
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
localities, as well as describes several other policy options that may be 
considered to reduce the effects of limited access.   
Not all of the questions about the extent, causes, and consequences of food 
deserts will be answered in this report.  The ﬁ nal chapter, Chapter 9, outlines 
an agenda for further research on the causes and consequences of areas with 
limited access to affordable and nutritious food.
References
Apparicio, P., M.S. Cloutier, and R. Shearmur (2007).  “The Case of 
Montréal’s Missing Food Deserts: Evaluation of Accessibility to Food 
Supermarkets,” International Journal of Health Geographics 6(4).
Bitler, Marianne, and Steven J. Haider (2009).  “An Economic View of Food 
Deserts in the United States,” National Poverty Center Working Paper, www.
npc.umich.edu/news/events/food-access/index.php 
Blanchard, T.C., and T. Lyson (2006).  Food Availability and Food Deserts 
in the Nonmetropolitan South, Assistance Needs of the South’s Vulnerable 
Populations, Number 12.
Block, D., and J. Kouba (2005).  “A Comparison of the Availability and 
Affordability of a Market Basket in Two Communities in the Chicago Area,” 
Public Health Nutrition 9(7):  837-845.
Broda, C. E. Leibtag, and D.E. Weinstein (2009).  “The role of prices in 
measuring the poor’s living standard,” Journal of Economic Perspectives, 23 
(2): Spring 2009: 000-000 (forthcoming).  
Carlson, A., M. Lino, W.Y. Juan, K. Hanson, and P.P. Basiotis (2007a).  
Thrifty Food Plan, 2006, CNPP-19, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Center 
for Nutrition Policy and Promotion.  
Carlson, A., M. Lino, and T. Fungwe (2007b).  The Low-Cost, Moderate-
Cost, and Liberal Food Plans, 2007, CNPP-20, U.S. Department of 
Agriculture, Center for Nutrition Policy and Promotion.  
Cole, N. (1997, February) Evaluation of the Expanded EBT Demonstration in 
Maryland:  Patterns of Food Stamp and Cash Welfare Beneﬁ t Redemption. 
Report submitted to U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition 
Service by Abt Associates, Inc.  
Cotterill, R., and A. Franklin (1995). “The Urban Grocery Store Gap,” Food 
Marketing Policy Center, University of Connecticut.
Donohue, R.M. (1997). Abandonment and Revitalization of Central City 
Retailing: The Case of Grocery Stores, The University of Michigan DAI-A 
58/10.
Gallagher, M. (2007).  Examining the Impact of Food Deserts on Public 
Health in Detroit, Mari Gallagher Research & Consulting Group.

===== PAGE 19 =====
9
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Gallagher, M. (2006). Examining the Impact of Food Deserts on Public 
Health in Chicago, Mari Gallagher Research & Consulting Group.
Hendrickson, D., C. Smith, and N. Eikenberry (2006).  “Fruit and Vegetable 
Access in Four Low-income Food Deserts Communities in Minnesota,” 
Agriculture and Human Values, 23:  371-383.
Larson, N.I., M.T. Story, and M.C. Nelson (2009). “Neighborhood 
environments: Disparities in access to healthy foods in the U.S,” American 
Journal of Preventive Medicine, 36(1): 74-81.e10. 
Mantovani, R.E., L. Daft, T.F. Macaluso, J. Welsh, and K. Hoffman (1997). 
Authorized Food Retailer Characteristics Study (Technical Report IV): 
Authorized Food Retailers’ Characteristics and Access Study, Report 
submitted to U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, by 
Macro International, Inc.
Moore, L., and A. Diez Roux (2006).  “Associations of Neighborhood 
Characteristics With the Location and Type of Food Stores,” American 
Journal of Public Health, February, Vol. 96, No. 2, pp. 325-331.
Moore, L., and A. Diez Roux (2006).  “Associations of Neighborhood 
Characteristics with the Location and Type of Food Stores,” American 
Journal of Public Health, February, Vol. 96, No. 2, pp. 325-331.
Morton, L.W., and T.C. Blanchard (2007).  “Starved for Access: Life in 
Rural America’s Food Deserts,” Rural Realities 1(4):  1-10.
Neckerman, K.M., M. Bader, M. Purciel, and P. Yousefzadeh (2009).  
“Measuring Food Access in Urban Areas,” National Poverty Center Working 
Paper, www.npc.umich.edu/news/events/food-access/index.php 
Nord, M., M. Andrews, and S. Carlson  (2008).  Household Food Security in 
the United States, 2007, Economic Research Report 66,  Economic Research 
Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture.  
O’Connor, J., and B. Abell. “Successful Supermarkets in Low Income Inner 
Cities,” www.nal.usda.gov/foodstamp/FOODSTAMPREPORTS/FSP-341.
PDF.
Pike, J. (2000). “Boston’s Poor Pay More For Food, Theft and Other 
Problems Increase Business Costs, Prices,” Massachusetts News, August 2.
Powell, L. (2009).  “Food Deserts: National Overview by Demographics and 
Socio-economic Status,” Presentation for the Institute of Medicine Workshop 
on the Public Health Effects of Food Deserts, January 26.  
Rose, D., J.N. Bodor, C.M. Swalm, J.C. Rice, T.A. Farley, and P.L. 
Hutchinson (2009).  “Deserts in New Orleans?  Illustrations of Urban Food 
Access and Implications for Policy,”  National Poverty Center Working 
Paper, http://www.npc.umich.edu/news/events/food-access/index.php

===== PAGE 20 =====
10
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Sharkey, J.R., and S. Horel (2009).  “Characteristics of Potential Spatial 
Access to a Variety of Fruits and Vegetables in a Large Rural Area,” 
National Poverty Center Working Paper, www.npc.umich.edu/news/events/
food-access/index.php 
Sparks, A., N. Bania, and L. Leete (2009).  “Finding Food Deserts:  
Methodology and Measurement of Food Access in Portland, Oregon,” 
National Poverty Center Working Paper, www.npc.umich.edu/news/events/
food-access/index.php 
U.S. Department of Agriculture (2009).  Ofﬁ cial USDA Food Plans:  Cost 
of Food at Home at Four Levels, U.S. Average, June, 2008, www.cnpp.usda.
gov/Publications/FoodPlans/2008/CostofFoodJun08.pdf 
Zenk S, N., Schulz A, J., Israel B, A., James S, A., et al. (2005). 
“Neighborhood Racial Composition, Neighborhood Poverty, and the Spatial 
Accessibility of Supermarkets in Metropolitan Detroit,” American Journal of 
Public Health, 95(4):660.

===== PAGE 21 =====
11
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
CHAPTER 2
The Extent of Limited Food 
Access in the United States  
This chapter describes the extent of limitations in access to affordable and 
nutritious food in the United States in three separate sections.  The ﬁ rst 
section provides estimates of individual measures of access, based on survey 
data on the number of U.S. households that indicate food access limitations.  
The second section uses a geographical, area-based approach to measure 
access to supermarkets.  A national level directory of supermarkets is 
developed and geocoded.  Distance-based measures of supermarket access 
are produced for the entire continental U.S. population and by selected 
economic and demographic characteristics of the population.  Median 
distances to supermarkets are computed and a three-category distinction 
of low, medium, and high access is used to describe supermarket access 
for the entire U.S. and separately for low-income neighborhoods and for 
people outside of those areas.  Information on vehicle ownership, which is 
an important individual-level characteristic related to the ease at which a 
variety of nutritious foods can be accessed, is also provided for those that 
live far from supermarkets.  The third section of this chapter uses data from 
the American Time Use Survey (ATUS) to estimate the amount of time 
households spend traveling to the grocery store.  The mode of transportation 
used is also considered.  
Most of the previous studies on food access have focused on speciﬁ c 
geographic areas such as cities or counties or even States.  The analysis in 
this chapter is unique because it uses multiple methods to provide a broad 
overview of access to affordable and nutritious food on a national level.  
Individual-Level Measures of Food Access From 
National Household Surveys
The vast majority of the literature on food deserts and much of the rest of 
this report focus on area-based measures of food access—that is, measures 
of access to stores or food outlets for a geographically designated area, often 
areas with high concentrations of low-income individuals.  These measures 
inherently assume that everyone within a geographic area has the same level 
of access as everyone else in that area.  But some people who live in areas 
with concentrated poverty may not be poor, may own their own vehicle, and 
may be able to access affordable and nutritious food.  Other poor individuals 
may live outside of areas with concentrated poverty but may have limited 
access to food.  An alternative measure of food access is the one presented in 
this section—access for individuals directly, regardless of where they live.  
Since 1995, USDA has collected information annually on food spending, 
food access and adequacy, and sources of food and nutrition assistance for 
the U.S. population.  The information is collected in an annual food security 
survey, conducted as a supplement to the nationally representative Current 
Population Survey (CPS).  Data from the Food Security Supplement of the 
CPS (CPS-FSS) is used to provide estimates of the prevalence and severity 
of food insecurity in U.S. households (see, for example, Nord et al., 2008).  

===== PAGE 22 =====
12
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
In addition to asking food security questions, the CPS-FSS, until 2001, asked 
a general question about whether the household had enough of the kinds of 
foods it wanted and needed.  Those households who responded that they 
did not have enough of the kinds of foods they wanted were asked followup 
questions about why they did not have enough food.  Respondents could 
answer by choosing from among several options, including options directly 
related to store access (see box, “CPS-FSS Questions on Food Access”).  
Table 2.1 provides the population weighted responses to these questions 
and provides a direct measure of the percent of households that do not 
always have enough of the foods they want because of access limitations.  
Eighty-one percent of households always had the kinds of foods they wanted 
to eat.  Sixteen percent always had enough food to eat but did not always 
Box CPS-FSS Questions on Food Access
SS1 
Which of these statements best describes the food eaten in your household-
-enough of the kinds of food we want to eat, enough but not always the kinds 
of food we want to eat, sometimes not enough to eat, or often not enough to 
eat?
 
1. Enough of the kinds of food we want to eat  (SKIP TO  SX1CK)
 
2. Enough but not always the kinds of food we want to eat (SKIP TO SS1B)
 
3. Sometimes not enough to eat (SKIP TO SS1C)
 
4. Often not enough to eat (SKIP TO SS1C)
Those who gave response #2, “enough but not always the kinds of foods we want to 
eat” were asked SS1B:
SS1B Here are some reasons why people don’t always have the kinds  of food they 
want.  For each one, please tell me if that is a reason why YOU don’t always 
have the kinds of food you want to eat.
 
READ LIST.  MARK ALL THAT APPLY.
 
YES 
NO
Not enough money for food 
 [ ] 
[ ]
Kinds of food we want not available 
 [ ] 
[ ]
Not enough time for shopping or cooking 
 [ ] 
[ ]
Too hard to get to the store   
 [ ] 
[ ]
On a special diet      
 [ ] 
[ ]
Those who responded to question SS1 with response #3 or #4, “sometimes” or “often 
not enough to eat” were asked SS1C: 
SS1C Here are some reasons why people don’t always have enough to eat.  For 
each one, please tell me if that is a reason why YOU might not always have 
enough to eat.
READ LIST.  MARK ALL THAT APPLY.
 
YES 
NO
Not enough money for food  
 [ ] 
[ ]
Not enough time for shopping or cooking 
 [ ] 
[ ]
Too hard to get to the store 
 [ ] 
[ ]
On a diet  
 [ ] 
[ ]
No working stove available  
 [ ] 
[ ]]
Not able to cook or eat because
  of health problems  
 [ ] 
[ ]
Notes:  Question SS1 is still asked in the CPS-FSS. Up until 2001, questions SS1B 
and SS1C were also asked as follow up questions.  For questions SS1B and SS1C, 
multiple responses were accepted.

===== PAGE 23 =====
13
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
have the kinds of foods they wanted to eat.  Another 3 percent sometimes or 
often did not have enough food to eat.  
Respondents who reported they had enough to eat but did not always have 
the kinds of foods they wanted were asked why they did not have the kinds 
of foods they wanted.  Among all households, 5.1 percent reported that they 
did not have the kinds of foods they wanted because it was either too hard to 
get to the store or the foods they wanted were not available.   Respondents 
who reported that they sometimes or often did not have enough food to eat 
were also asked why.  A total of 0.6 percent of all households said they did 
not always have enough to eat and that it was because it was too hard to get 
to the store.  Thus, based on these questions, 5.7 percent of all households 
reported they did not always have the food they want or need because of 
access limitations.  
Not all of these access limitations reﬂ ect a lack of a nearby store with 
adequate food.  Some who report that it is too hard to get to the store may 
be disabled or elderly and frail.  This group may very well have food access 
problems, but it is not necessarily because they do not have nutritious food 
options nearby.  Further, of the 5.7 percent who cited access problems, more 
than half, or 3.0 percent, also cited that they did not have enough money 
for food.  Another reason these responses may not indicate access problems 
related to nearby availability of food is that the condition “enough but not 
always the kinds of foods we want to eat” does not necessarily indicate 
whether the food available was nutritionally adequate or not.  Despite 
these caveats, these estimates from the CPS-FSS could be considered an 
estimate of the number of households that face food access limitations.
Table 2.1
National estimates of the percent of households who do not 
have enough of the kinds of foods they want because of food 
access limitations
 
 
Percent of 
 
 
all households
Households that always had the kinds of foods 
  they wanted to eat 
81.0
Households that had enough to eat but did not 
  always have the kinds of foods they wanted to eat 
16.0
Households that sometimes or often did not 
  have enough to eat 
3.1
Reported reasons for not always having the kinds of foods or enough food:
Households that always had enough to eat, but did not always have 
  the kinds of foods they wanted to eat because it was too hard to get
  to the store or the kinds of foods they wanted were not available 
5.1
Households that sometimes or often did not have enough 
  to eat because it was too hard to get to the store 
0.6
     Total with food access limitations 
5.7
Notes:  Some of those who reported it was “too hard to get to the store” may be elderly or 
disabled.  Of the 5.7 percent who reported access limitations, more than half (3.0 percent of all 
households) also cited that they did not have enough money for food.
Source: USDA, ERS calculations based on 2001 CPS-FSS survey data.

===== PAGE 24 =====
14
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Area-Based Measures of Access to Affordable and 
Nutritious Food
Individual measures of access provide one estimate of the number of people 
affected by limited access.  The primary intent of the congressional mandate 
was to focus on area-based measures of access.  Area-based measures are 
important because characteristics of the areas where people live, work, or 
travel may affect access to healthy and affordable food, which may affect 
diet and health.  
This section examines the extent of areas in the U.S. that have low access to 
supermarkets, a reliable source of nutritious and affordable foods.  A national 
supermarket directory is ﬁ rst developed and geocoded.  Data on population, 
income, and other household characteristics from the 2000 Census are 
aggregated to square kilometer grids that cover the continental United States.  
The distances are measured from the center of these 1-kilometer grids to the 
nearest supermarket for the entire U.S. population, for low-income areas and 
higher income areas, and by characteristics of individuals or households.  
Access to supermarkets is described using these distance measures ﬁ rst 
for the entire U.S. population, then separately for Census Urbanized Area 
designations.  The descriptions use simple population-weighted median 
distance to stores overall and across Urbanized Area and population 
characteristics.  Each area is assigned to one of three categories of access 
based on whether the distance to the nearest supermarket is within a range 
of “walkable” distances.  For rural areas, a “drivable” distance measure is 
considered.
Data and Methods 
Deﬁ nition of food retail outlets that offer affordable 
and nutritious food
Food is sold in a wide range of retail outlets, including traditional 
foodstores (e.g., supermarkets, grocery stores and convenience stores), and 
nontraditional retail stores that carry food products with other merchandise.  
Among the various forms of food retailers, supermarkets, supercenters, and 
warehouse club stores combined account for the largest share of food sales, 
75.2 percent of the total in 2008 (Economic Research Service, 2009).  These 
larger retail outlets typically offer all major food departments, including fresh 
produce, meat, poultry and seafood, as well as more economical package 
sizes and lower cost store brands and generic brands of packaged foods.  
Many studies have shown large retail outlets are more affordable relative 
to other retail food outlets (Andrews et al., 2001; Chung and Myers, 1999; 
Nayga and Weinberg, 1999; Kaufman et al., 1997).  
An ERS review of studies of food prices found that supermarket prices are 
10 percent lower, on average, than those of smaller foodstores, in part, due 
to lower per unit costs resulting in lower margins over cost of goods sold 
(Kaufman et al., 1997).  Neckerman, et al. (2009) cite a number of audit 
surveys of food prices, ﬁ nding that store type is highly associated with 
price and that supermarkets, larger chain stores, or discount stores such as 
supercenters, tend to offer lower prices.  

===== PAGE 25 =====
15
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Montovani et al. (1997) examined characteristics and services of a nationally 
representative sample of 2,400 stores authorized to receive beneﬁ ts from the 
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP).  Price, quality, and 
variety of store foods were assessed in terms of the market basket of goods 
that reﬂ ect the Thrifty and Low Cost Food Plans.13 This analysis focused on 
product availability and cost in areas with different concentrations of poverty. 
In urban areas, market basket costs in supermarkets and large grocers were 
nearly equivalent across levels of poverty.  Prices were less at “other” 
stores located in high-poverty areas versus those in lower poverty areas. 
Availability of market basket items did not vary by poverty level among 
supermarkets in urban areas.  Variety did vary by poverty level for large 
grocers.  Fresh produce and fresh seafood were less available in large grocers 
located in high-poverty areas.  Fresh meat was more available, however, 
at large grocers in these locations.  In rural areas, market basket costs were 
consistently similar in higher and lower poverty areas.  With the exception 
of fresh seafood, a similar proportion of market basket items was available in 
supermarkets and large grocery stores, regardless of the area’s poverty level.  
Food quality was similar across different store types and poverty levels in 
rural areas.  Results from this analysis conﬁ rm that, on average, supermarkets 
and large grocery stores offer lower prices and more variety than other store 
types.  Large grocers were more similar to supermarkets than other store 
types, especially in rural zip codes.   
The analysis uses supermarkets and large grocery stores (hereafter deﬁ ned 
simply as “supermarkets”) as proxies for food retailers that offer a variety 
of nutritious, affordable retail foods.  The industry-standardized deﬁ nition 
requires that to be considered a supermarket, a retailer must have annual 
sales of at least $2 million and contain all the major food departments found 
in a traditional supermarket, including fresh meat and poultry, produce, dairy, 
dry and packaged foods, and frozen foods.14, 15   
Two separate national-level directories of foodstores from the year 2006 were 
used to develop a comprehensive list of supermarkets in the U.S.  The ﬁ rst 
directory is a list of authorized stores that accept SNAP beneﬁ ts.  More than 
166,000 outlets were authorized in 2006, but only approximately 34,000 met 
the supermarket deﬁ nition criteria.  In addition to the store name and address, 
SNAP data include a store type classiﬁ cation, the most recent authorization 
year’s total sales and total food sales, and total SNAP redemptions.  The 
SNAP data were augmented with additional supermarket data from Trade 
Dimensions TDLinx (a Nielsen company), a proprietary source of individual 
supermarket store listings also for the year 2006.16  This data set includes 
the name and address of supermarkets, the type of supermarket, annual sales 
volume range, and other supermarket characteristics.  Details on how these 
data were merged and cleaned can be found in Appendix C.  The combined 
list of supermarkets was converted into a GIS-useable format by geocoding 
the street addresses into store point locations.  The ﬁ nal combined data set 
included locations for 40,108 supermarkets and supercenters nationwide. 
By combining the two store listings and using outside sources for 
veriﬁ cation, a more comprehensive national list of supermarkets and 
supercenters was obtained.  By comparison, a study of Salt Lake County, 
Utah, revealed that there can be considerable disagreement across sources 
of data on the presence of foodstores when conducting access studies (Fan 
 
13Market basket quality was 
measured in terms of availability of 
acceptable items as guided by a USDA 
publication on buying quality food 
(1975).
 
14The $2 million annual sales 
requirement has been used by the 
retail food industry since at least 
1980.  If adjusted for annual inﬂ ation, 
the equivalent in 2008 dollars is 
approximately $4.5 million.  By 
using the unadjusted annual sales, 
we potentially include medium-sized 
grocery stores in both the industry and 
SNAP store directories.  
 
15Supercenters are included in our 
deﬁ nition of supermarkets.  However, 
warehouse club stores, also known 
as wholesale club stores, were not 
included in this study for two reasons.  
First, warehouse/wholesale club stores 
are not considered to be supermarkets 
by the industry, and second, few of 
these stores have applied to accept 
SNAP beneﬁ ts.  
 
16TDLinx data only include 
information on stores that meet the 
industry standard deﬁ nition of a 
supermarket. 

===== PAGE 26 =====
16
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
et al., 2009).  In a study of access to foodstores in Detroit, Gallagher (2007) 
also describes discrepancies in supermarket classiﬁ cation when using SNAP-
authorized store data. 
Using supermarkets and supercenters may underestimate the availability 
of affordable and nutritious food.  Smaller grocery stores, neighborhood 
markets, or “dollar stores,” for example, sometimes include a range of 
healthful, affordable foods.17  Rose et al. (2009) and Sharkey and Horel 
(2009) both conducted in-store audits of food availability in these store 
types in New Orleans and in the Brazos Valley, Texas.  The problem with 
including these stores in the analysis is that the range of foods sold in these 
stores was highly varied (Franco et al., forthcoming; Neckerman et al., 2009; 
Rose et al. 2009; and Sharkey and Horel, 2009).  It would be impossible to 
do a complete national level audit of the contents of these stores.  Reliable 
data on the relative pricing of foods sold in these stores is not available 
either, which means it cannot be asserted with conﬁ dence that these stores 
are a source for a wide range of affordable and nutritious food.  
Food is also sold in restaurants, fast food outlets, and related foodservice 
establishments.  In fact, nearly half of all food spending is on food away 
from home (Martinez and Kaufman, 2008).  In considering the effect of 
food access on diet and health, access to restaurants and other foodservice 
establishments is important because food from these sources accounts for 
a signiﬁ cant part of the total diet.  However, this national-level analysis 
does not consider access to restaurants and other food service outlets.  
Compared with foodstores and other retail food outlets, the monetary costs 
of an equal quantity of food purchased in a restaurant are higher than the 
costs at supermarkets or grocery stores.  The cost of food sold in restaurants 
represents about one-third of the price at which it is sold, so that two-thirds 
of the cost of restaurant food is the premium of having someone prepare 
and serve it to the customer.  In a grocery store, the cost of food accounts 
for about three-fourths of the retail price, on average.  Thus, while eating at 
a restaurant may diminish the time costs of buying and preparing food for 
a consumer, those costs are eventually paid for by the consumer.  For these 
reasons, food eaten at restaurants is less affordable due to its higher per unit 
cost relative to foodstores and other retail food outlets.  
Deﬁ ning and measuring the geographical unit of interest
This study uses the Socioeconomic Data and Applications Center 
(SEDAC) grids data, which is based on information from the 2000 Census 
of Population (SEDAC, 2006).  These population data (including some 
socioeconomic and demographic data), which are released at the block 
group level, are ﬁ rst allocated to blocks and then allocated aerially down to 
roughly 1-square-kilometer grids across the continental United States.  These 
data provide two important beneﬁ ts for the analysis.  First, they give better 
estimates of where people and households are located than data on larger 
geographic areas, such as census tracts.  Second, the process of allocating 
census data to 1-square-kilometer grid cells transforms the irregular shapes 
and sizes of census geographies into regularized grid cells, providing for 
faster spatial computation needed for national-level analysis.
 
17Specialized foodstores, such as 
produce markets, meat and seafood 
markets, and retail bakeries, can serve 
as a source for affordable and nutritious 
food; however, they typically do not 
provide the full range of foods that 
supermarkets and supercenters do.

===== PAGE 27 =====
17
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Measuring access from the geographical unit to the foodstore
This study uses distance to the nearest supermarket as a measure of access.18  
For each grid cell, the distance is calculated from its geographic center to 
the nearest supermarket.  Median distances to the nearest supermarket are 
calculated for the Nation as a whole and across different subpopulations.  
Based on the grid measure of distance to the nearest supermarket, three 
categories of access (high, medium, and low) are created for two types of 
access—walking access and driving access.  Walking access measures a 
range of distances for which it is feasible to walk to a supermarket, while 
drivable access measures a range of distances for which it is feasible to 
drive to a supermarket.  A time-based distance measure equivalent for both 
walking and driving is developed.  The walkability range is categorized 
as either 1) high, if a supermarket is within a half mile; 2) medium, if a 
supermarket is between ½ and 1 mile; and 3) low, if the nearest supermarket 
is more than a mile away.  For rural areas, a drivability range is also 
measured.  Drivability is categorized as either 1) high, if a supermarket is 
within 10 miles; 2) medium, if a supermarket is between 10 and 20 miles; 
and 3) low, if a supermarket is greater than 20 miles away.  
Deﬁ ning vulnerable subpopulations of interest  
This national-level assessment of access to affordable and nutritious food 
ﬁ rst characterizes access for the entire U.S. population.  But the interest 
here is in subpopulations that may be particularly vulnerable to access 
barriers.  The study considers supermarket access across the following four 
subpopulations:  
• Low-income individuals, where anyone living in a household with 
income less than or equal to 200 percent of the Federal poverty 
thresholds for family size is considered low-income.19  
• Household vehicle access, where households that do not have access to 
an automobile, van, or truck of 1-ton-load capacity or less are considered 
separately from those households who do have access.  
• Race and ethnicity, where non-Whites include those individuals who 
identiﬁ ed their race as something other than “White” or their ethnicity as 
Hispanic (regardless of race).
• Elderly or nonelderly status, where individuals over age 65 are 
considered elderly.  
Specifying areas with high concentrations of low-income people 
This study is interested not only in vulnerable individuals and households 
but also in vulnerable areas—neighborhoods that are highly deprived and for 
which, food access could be limited.  Areas (the 1-kilometer-square grids) are 
identiﬁ ed as low-income areas if more than 40 percent of the people in the 
grid had income at or below 200 percent of the Federal poverty thresholds 
using kernel-density smoothing.  Comparisons of distances to supermarkets 
across these low-income and higher income areas are made.  
 
18Chapter 4 also uses a variety mea-
sure of distance, which is the distance 
to three different supermarkets. 
 
19In 2008, the poverty threshold for 
a family of two adults and two children 
was $21,835, so 200 percent of this 
threshold would double the threshold to 
$43,670.

===== PAGE 28 =====
18
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Finally, because it is difﬁ cult to use the same measures to characterize access 
in densely populated urban areas compared with less populated suburban and 
rural areas, a separate analysis is conducted using Census Urbanized Area 
deﬁ nitions.  The three deﬁ nitions are as follows: Urban Areas, densely settled 
that contain 50,000 or more people, such as a core city and surrounding 
suburbs; Urban Clusters, densely settled local areas that have at least 2,500 
people but fewer than 50,000 people, such as smaller cities and towns; and 
Rural Areas, low-density areas with populations of less than 2,500, including 
all areas not classiﬁ ed as either Urban Areas or Urban Clusters.
Results and Findings
This section presents a national overview of access to supermarkets.  
Separate analyses of access are also conducted for each of three Census-
designated urbanicity types.  Measures of access are presented for the 
overall population and then by each of the four vulnerable subpopulations.  
Differences in supermarket access are compared between low-income and 
higher income areas within each urbanicity type.  
National access overview
Table 2.2 shows supermarket access for selected individual characteristics 
of vulnerable populations.  Median distance to the nearest supermarket is 
given.20  The number and percentage of individuals or households that have 
high, medium, and low access are also presented.  The data in this table are 
for the Nation as a whole, not separately by areas or by urbanicity.  
Overall, median distance to the nearest supermarket is 0.85 miles.  Median 
distance for low-income individuals is about 0.1 of a mile less than for those 
with higher income, and a greater share of low-income individuals (61.8 
percent) have high or medium access to supermarkets than those with higher 
income (56.1 percent).
Overall, ethnic and racial minorities have better access to supermarkets 
than Whites.  Median distance to the nearest supermarket for non-White 
individuals is 0.63 miles, compared with 0.96 miles on average for Whites.  
Similarly, a smaller percentage of non-Whites (26.6 percent) have low access 
to supermarkets than do Whites (48.2 percent).  These differences do not 
consider income, only race/ethnicity.  
There are not great differences in access to supermarkets by elderly status.  
In terms of distance to the supermarket, the elderly compare very much with 
the nonelderly, overall.  Despite their similar distances to supermarkets, the 
elderly could face additional barriers to access due to disability or inability to 
drive to the supermarket.  
Vehicle access is perhaps the most important determinant of whether or 
not a family can access affordable and nutritious food.  Table 2.3 focuses 
speciﬁ cally on vehicle ownership for the entire Nation.  It shows the total 
number of households in the U.S., the number without access to a vehicle and 
their distance to the nearest supermarket.  The table reports these statistics 
for all households in the U.S. and for all households in low-income areas and 
then separately by the three urbanicity categories.  The study focuses only on 
 
20The median distance is the point at 
which over the range of distances, half 
of the population is closer to that point, 
while half is farther away. 

===== PAGE 29 =====
19
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Table 2.2
Supermarket access by household income, race/ethnicity, age, and vehicle access (walking distance)
Distance to nearest supermarket miles
High access
(0.5 miles or less)
Medium access 
(Between 0.5-1 mile)
Low access
(More than 1 mile)
Number 
(millions)
Percent 
Median1 
(miles)
Number 
(millions)
Percent
Number 
(millions)
Percent
Number 
(millions)
Percent
Income:2
  Low-income
79.3 
28.8
0.76
22.6 
28.5
26.4 
33.3
30.2 
38.1
  Higher-income
196.1 
71.2
0.87
43.8 
22.3
66.3 
33.8
86.1 
43.9
All income levels
275.5 
100.0
0.84
66.5 
24.1
92.7 
33.7
116.3 
42.2
Race/ethnicity:
  Non-White
85.7 
30.7
0.63
31.4 
36.6
31.5 
36.8
22.8 
26.6
  White
193.9 
69.3
0.96
39.1 
20.2
61.3 
31.6
93.4 
48.2
All races/ethnicities
279.6 
100.0
0.86
70.5 
25.2
92.8 
33.2
116.3 
41.6
Age:
  Age 65 or more
34.8 
12.4
0.81
8.9 
25.7
11.8 
33.9
14.1 
40.4
  Less than age 65
244.8 
87.6
0.82
61.6 
25.2
81.0 
33.1
102.2 
41.8
All ages
279.6 
100.0
0.82
70.6 
25.2
92.7 
33.2
116.3 
41.6
Vehicle access:
  Households without
     vehicle
10.8 
10.3
0.55
5.0 
46.2
3.4 
31.7
2.4 
22.1
  Households with
     vehicle
94.1 
89.7
0.84
22.2 
23.6
31.7 
33.7
40.2 
42.7
All households
104.9 
100.0
0.81
27.2 
25.9
35.1 
33.5
42.5 
40.6
1Medians are weighted by population of each square kilometer grid area. 
2Low-income households are those with income less than or equal to 200 percent of the Federal poverty threshold for family size. 
Sources:  USDA, ERS analysis based on data from Census of Population, 2000 and the ERS-compiled supermarket directory for the 
contiguous U.S. in 2006.
Table 2-3
Household vehicle access and supermarket access
Geographic area
Total households1
Households without access to a vehicle
Between 1/2 to 1 mile 
from a supermarket
More than 1 mile 
from a supermarket
Number
Percent
Number
Percent
Millions
Millions
Millions
Total U.S.
104.9 
3.4 
3.2
2.4 
2.3
  Low-income areas
25.1 
1.6
6.4
0.9 
3.8
Urban areas
69.9 
2.9
4.1
1.1 
1.5
  Low-income areas
15.6 
1.3
8.3
0.4 
2.5
Urban clusters
9.7 
0.4 
4.1
0.2 
2.5
  Low-income areas
3.6 
0.2
5.6
0.1 
3.3
Rural areas
25.3 
0.2 
0.8
1.1 
4.4
  Low-income areas
5.9 
0.1 
1.7
0.4 
7.4
1 This column shows the total number of households regardless of vehicle access. 
Source: USDA, ERS analysis based on data from Census of Population, 2000 and the ERS-compiled supermarket directory for the 
contiguous U.S. in 2006.

===== PAGE 30 =====
20
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
households with medium or low access (those more than one-half mile from 
a supermarket) since those who have high access can walk to a supermarket 
that, at most, is one-half mile away.  
Only 2.4 million households, or 2.3 percent of all 104.9 million households 
in the U.S., live more than a mile from a supermarket and do not have access 
to a vehicle.  An additional 3.4 million households, or 3.2 percent of all 
households, do not have access to a vehicle and are between one-half to 1 
mile from a supermarket.  Thus, for the total U.S. population, between 2.3 
and 5.5 percent of all households may be outside of a walking distance to a 
supermarket and lack access to a vehicle.  
Not surprisingly, the percentage of households without access to vehicles 
is higher in low-income areas.  Overall, 0.9 million households do not 
have access to a vehicle and live in low-income areas more than a mile 
from a supermarket.  This represents 3.6 percent of all households in 
low-income areas.  A much greater percentage of households without 
vehicles in low-income areas is between one-half to 1 mile from the nearest 
supermarket—1.6 million households, or 6.4 percent of all low-income 
households.
Table 2.3 also presents the number of households without access to vehicles 
and distance to supermarkets by urbanicity.  These estimates show that 1.1 
million households, or 4.3 percent of all rural households, lacks access to a 
vehicle and lives more than 1 mile from a supermarket.  It is not surprising 
that people in rural areas live farther from the nearest supermarkets.  But it is 
perhaps unexpected that a greater percentage lack access to a vehicle.  Urban 
areas have the smallest percentages of households without access to a vehicle 
that are more than a mile from a supermarket.  For urban areas, 4.1 percent of 
households are between one-half to 1 mile from the nearest supermarket and 
do not have access to a vehicle.  
The analysis now turns speciﬁ cally to supermarket access for areas with high 
concentrations of low-income people.  Map 2.1 shows low-income areas in 
the U.S., which are 1-kilometer grid cells where more than 40 percent of the 
total population has income less than or equal to 200 percent of the Federal 
poverty level.  The map shows the dispersion of low-income areas across the 
country, but the map also shows greater concentration of low-income areas in 
the South, Southwest, and Upper Plains States.  Rural low-income areas are 
better reﬂ ected on the map than urban low-income areas, which are difﬁ cult 
to see on the national level view the map provides.   
Table 2.4 focuses on these low-income areas.  The right half of the table 
shows the number (and percent) of people in low-income areas by access 
level.  It also shows the percent of the total U.S. population represented in 
these low-income areas.  The left half of the table focuses only on those 
people with incomes below 200 percent of Federal poverty guidelines.  It is 
worth noting here, and will be supported later in the chapter, that low-income 
people who live outside of low-income areas are, in general, farther from 
supermarkets than low-income people who live in low-income areas.

===== PAGE 31 =====
21
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Table 2-4
Supermarket access for people in low-income and higher-income areas (walking distances)
Low-income areas1
Access level2
(walking)
All people in low-income areas
All low-income people in low-income areas
Total number
(millions) 
Percent of people in 
low-income areas
Percent of total 
U.S. population 
(millions)
Total number
Percent of low-
income people
Percent of total 
U.S. population
High
22.9 
32.1
8.2 
12.1 
33.5
4.3 
Medium
24.9 
34.9
8.9 
12.5 
34.7
4.5 
Low
23.5 
33.0
8.4 
11.5 
31.8
4.1 
Subtotal in low-
income areas
71.3 
100.0
25.5 
36.0 
100.0
12.9 
Total U.S. population
279.6
79.3
1Low-income and non-low-income areas deﬁ ned according to ERS criteria.  See text for details.
2High access deﬁ ned as less than or equal to 1/2 mile of a supermarket. Medium access deﬁ ned as more than 1/2 mile but less than or equal to 
one mile from a supermarket. Low access deﬁ ned as more than one mile from a supermarket.
Source: USDA, ERS analysis based on data from Census of Population, 2000 and the ERS-compiled supermarket directory for the contiguous 
U.S. in 2006.
Map 2.1
Low income areas of the contiguous 48 United States (1 km grids in which 40 percent 
of population have incomes below 200 percent of the Federal poverty level)
Low income areas

===== PAGE 32 =====
22
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
The ﬁ rst point to note in table 2.4 is that only 33 percent of people in 
low-income areas live in areas with low access.  In contrast, 32 percent of 
people in low-income areas live in high-access areas and 35 percent live 
in medium-access areas.  Thus, one estimate of the number of people who 
live in low-income areas with low access to supermarkets is 23.5 million, 
which is 8.4 percent of the total U.S. population (out of a total of 279.6 
million people in 2000).  If those with medium-access levels who live in 
low-income areas are included, then 48.4 million, or 17 percent of the total 
U.S. population, is more than half a mile from a supermarket.  
Not all people in low-income areas, however, have low income.  In fact, 
only about half have income less than 200 percent of the Federal poverty 
thresholds (36 million out of a total of 71 million).  It is likely that those who 
are not low income but live in low-income areas have adequate resources to 
access supermarkets even if they are more than a mile away.  If the analysis 
excludes those who live in low-income areas, but who are not themselves, 
low income, then only 11.5 million, or 4.1 percent of the total U.S. 
population, has low access to supermarkets.  Including those low-income 
people in low-income areas with medium access yields a total of 24 million 
people, or 8.6 percent of the total population.     
Supermarket access in urban areas
Thus far, the study has considered urban, rural, and all areas in between 
similarly.  But distance does not mean the same thing in rural areas as 
in urban areas.  The focus next turns to analysis of access by urbanicity.  
Each grid area is assigned to one of three Census Urbanized Areas: Urban 
Areas, Urban Clusters, and Rural Areas.  Together, these three urban types 
characterize the range of urbanicity found in the U.S. population.  A separate 
analysis of access is conducted for each urban type at the national level.  
Populations within an urban type are assumed to have similar levels of 
density, measured as population per unit of area, such as per square mile or 
square kilometer.  Areas having similar population densities are more likely 
to have similar levels of the built environment—the infrastructure (e.g., 
networks of roads, transportation services, utilities, communication networks, 
and government services) and businesses, manufacturing plants, and retail 
stores.  Analysis by urban type results in measurement of access within 
similar built environments, resulting in greater comparability across similar 
populations regardless of location.  
Table 2.5 shows measures of access to supermarkets in urban areas only.  
Median distances to supermarkets are calculated for each of the four 
vulnerable populations as are the percentage of the populations with high, 
medium and low access to supermarkets.  To better understand how access 
to supermarkets differs for vulnerable and disadvantaged groups, the study 
compares access measures by each of the four economic and demographic 
characteristics: income, race/ethnicity, vehicle access, and elderly status.  
For each of the vulnerable populations, access for those who live in areas 
with high concentrations of low-income individuals is compared with that 
of those who live outside of areas with high concentrations of low-income 
individuals.

===== PAGE 33 =====
23
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Table 2.5 ﬁ rst presents data on supermarket access for urban areas.  A greater 
share of low-income individuals lives outside of low-income areas (53.6 
percent) than in low-income areas (46.4 percent).  Further, low-income 
individuals who live in higher income areas live farther from supermarkets 
than those who live in low-income urban areas.  About 15 percent of those in 
low-income urban areas are more than a mile from a supermarket, compared 
with 29 percent for those in higher income areas.  Median distances to 
supermarkets reﬂ ect this as well.    
The next rows focus speciﬁ cally on access for low-income individuals, which 
make up 27.2 percent of all urban dwellers.  Results show that 43.3 percent 
of low-income individuals who live in low-income areas are within one-half 
mile of a supermarket and another 41.5 percent of are between half a mile to 
one mile from the nearest supermarket.  The remaining 15.1 percent of the 
Table 2.5
Urban area access to supermarkets--overall and for income and demographic 
subpopulations (walking distance)
Distance to nearest supermarket
High access
(0.5 miles or less)
Medium access 
(Between 0.5-1 mile)
Low access
(More than 1 mile)
Population
Income 
level of 
area
Number 
(millions)
Total 
percent
Sub-
population 
percent 
Median 
(miles)
Number 
(millions)
Percent
Number 
(millions)
Percent
Number 
(millions)
Percent
Total population 
of urban areas
Low 
income 
45.3 
100.0
24.4
0.57
19.2 
42.5
19.0 
42.1
7.0 
15.4
Higher 
income
140.6 
100.0
75.6
0.71
42.1 
30.0
57.9 
41.2
40.6 
28.9
  Total
185.9 
100.0
100.0
61.4 
33.0
76.9 
41.4
47.6 
25.6
Subpopulations
Population with 
low income
Low 
income
23.5 
51.9
46.4
0.56
10.2 
43.3
9.8 
41.5
3.6 
15.1
Higher 
income
27.1 
19.3
53.6
0.65
9.0 
33.1
11.5 
42.3
6.7 
24.6
  Total
50.6 
27.2
100.0
19.1 
37.8
21.2 
41.9
10.2 
20.2
Households 
without access 
to a vehicle
Low 
income
3.4 
22.0
40.5
0.50
1.7 
50.2
1.3 
38.4
0.4 
11.3
Higher 
income
5.1 
9.3
59.5
0.42
2.8 
56.1
1.6 
30.8
0.7 
13.1
  Total
8.5 
12.2
100.0
4.6 
53.7
2.9 
33.9
1.1 
12.4
Non-White 
population
Low 
income
30.8 
68.1
44.2
0.55
13.7 
44.5
12.6 
41.0
4.5 
14.5
Higher 
income
38.9 
27.7
55.8
0.60
15.3 
39.4
15.6 
40.1
8.0 
20.5
  Total
69.8 
37.5
100.0
29.1 
41.6
28.2 
40.5
12.5 
17.9
Elderly 
population
Low 
income
4.5 
10.0
20.3
0.58
1.8 
40.8
2.0 
43.7
0.7 
15.6
Higher 
income
17.7 
12.6
79.7
0.69
5.4 
30.5
7.5 
42.5
4.8 
27.0
  Total
22.2 
11.9
100.0
7.2 
32.6
9.5 
42.7
5.5 
24.6
Source: Source: USDA, ERS analysis based on data from Census of Population, 2000 and the ERS-compiled supermarket directory for the 
contiguous U.S. in 2006.

===== PAGE 34 =====
24
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
low-income individuals who live in low-income areas resided more than a 
mile from the nearest supermarket.
Similar statistics were calculated for low-income urban individuals who 
live outside of low-income areas.  Applying the access categories, 33.1 
percent had high levels of access, 42.3 percent had medium access, and 24.6 
percent had low access.  This is greater than the 15.1 percent of low-income 
individuals living in low-income areas that had low access.  
Maps 2.2 and 2.3 illustrate these measures of access for two urban areas, the 
Washington, DC, and St. Louis, Missouri, metro areas.  For Washington, DC, 
there were two low-income areas, outlined in black, that are largely contained 
within the city’s boundaries.  The St. Louis area has a large low-income area 
that spans a good portion of the City of St. Louis in Missouri and across 
the Mississippi River into Illinois.  In both maps, circles shaded light green 
indicate areas that are within a 1-mile radius of a supermarket.  The color 
shadings of the areas indicate population density where the darker shading 
indicates grids with more people and the lighter shading indicates grids 
with fewer people.  This study focuses particular attention on areas that are 
Map 2.2
Washington, DC Urban Area

===== PAGE 35 =====
25
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
outside of the one-mile radius of a supermarket and in the neighborhoods 
with low income.   
Map 2.2 shows that there are some low-income areas within DC and on the 
border with Prince Georges County, Maryland, which are outside of 1 mile 
from a supermarket.  But for most of these areas, the population density 
is low to moderate.  The situation looks more severe in the St. Louis area.  
While the most densely populated grids are within one mile of a supermarket, 
there are several low-income grids with moderate to high densities that are 
more than a mile from a supermarket, especially in the central and northern 
part of St. Louis, Missouri.  The low-income area just east of the Mississippi 
River in Illinois has few supermarkets, but there are few grids outside of one 
mile that have moderate to high population densities.  The Illinois side of the 
river has many grids with low population densities that are more than a mile 
from a supermarket.
Table 2.5 also shows supermarket access for households without access to 
vehicles, overall, and then separately by whether or not the households live in 
low-income or higher income areas.  About 12.2 percent of urban households 
Map 2.3
St. Louis, Missouri Urban Area

===== PAGE 36 =====
26
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
do not have access to a vehicle; however, this number is almost twice as 
large—22 percent—for households in low-income areas.  Those who live 
in higher income areas are much more likely to have access to a vehicle—
only 9.3 percent do not have access to a vehicle.  Just over 50 percent of 
low-income-area households without access to a vehicle had a high level of 
access.  Another 38.4 percent of this population had medium access.  The 
remaining 11.3 percent of households living in low-income areas without 
access to vehicles were more than 1 mile from the nearest supermarket and 
had low access to supermarkets.  Among households that lived outside of 
low-income areas and did not have access to a vehicle, a greater percentage 
had high access than similar households that lived in low-income areas, but 
fewer had medium access and more had low access.   
About 15 percent of non-White individuals living in low-income areas have 
low access to supermarkets.  An additional 41 percent have medium access.  
This compares with 21 percent of non-White individuals living outside of 
low-income areas with low access and 40 percent with medium access.  
A greater share of the elderly population in low-income areas had high access 
(40.8 percent) than those living outside low-income areas (30.5 percent).  
While both groups have about the same percentage of the population of 
elderly with medium access, the greatest difference occurred among the 
low-access group.  Almost 16 percent of the elderly who lived in low-income 
areas were outside of 1 mile from the nearest supermarket, but 27 percent 
of those living outside low-income areas were more than a mile from a 
supermarket.
Supermarket access in urban clusters
The population in urban clusters (areas with at least 2,500 people but fewer 
than 50,000 people) makes up 9.1 percent of the total U.S. population.  Table 
2.6 presents accessibility measures for vulnerable populations in low-income 
and higher income areas within urban clusters.  
Individuals with income below 200 percent of Federal poverty thresholds 
represent 34.6 percent of the total urban cluster population.  Of these 
individuals, 54.4 percent lived in low-income areas while 45.6 percent lived 
outside of low-income areas.  Almost 29 percent of low-income individuals 
who live in low-income areas are within half a mile of a supermarket.  
Another 42.0 percent were between half a mile and 1 mile.  The remaining 
29.3 percent of low-income individuals in low-income areas were outside of 
a mile from the nearest supermarket.  Thus, about 30 percent of low-income 
individuals in low-income urban clusters have low access to supermarkets. 
The percentage of low-income individuals with low access to supermarkets is 
greater for those who live outside of low-income areas within urban clusters.  
Thirty-ﬁ ve percent lived more than a mile from a supermarket and an 
additional 39.5 percent were between a half mile and a mile.  Only 26 percent 
were within a half mile of a supermarket.  
Less than 10 percent of households in urban clusters lacked access to a 
vehicle.  Among households without access to vehicles, those who lived in 

===== PAGE 37 =====
27
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
low-income areas had slightly better access to supermarkets than those who 
lived outside of low-income areas, but the distributions are very similar. 
Supermarket access in rural areas
Because the population in rural areas is dispersed, this analysis measures 
access to the nearest supermarket according to driving distances.  Rural 
areas represent 36.9 percent of the total land area of the U.S., but only 24.4 
percent of the U.S. population.  Just over 29 percent of the rural population 
is low-income, which is lower than the percent in urban clusters but greater 
than the percent in urban areas (table 2.7).   
Almost 39 percent of low-income individuals in rural areas lived in 
low-income areas, while the remaining 61 percent lived in higher income 
rural areas.  Among low-income individuals, those living in higher income 
Table 2.6
Urban cluster access to supermarkets--overall and for income and demographic 
subpopulations (walking distance)
Distance to nearest supermarket
High access
(0.5 miles or less)
Medium access 
(Between 0.5-1 mile)
Low access
(More than 1 mile)
Population
Income 
level of 
area
Number 
(millions)
Total 
percent
Sub-
population 
percent 
Median 
(miles)
Number 
(millions)
Percent
Number 
(millions)
Percent
Number 
(millions)
Percent
Total population 
of urban clusters
Low 
income 
9.9 
100.0
38.8
0.72
2.8 
28.7
4.1 
41.8
2.9 
29.6
Higher 
income
15.6 
100.0
61.2
0.82
3.6 
23.4
5.9 
38.0
6.0 
38.6
  Total
25.5 
100.0
100.0
6.5 
25.4
10.1 
39.5
8.9 
35.1
Subpopulations
Population with 
low income
Low 
income
4.8 
48.6
54.4
0.71
1.4 
28.7
2.0 
42.0
1.4 
29.3
Higher 
income
4.0 
25.8
45.6
0.77
1.0 
25.5
1.6 
39.5
1.4 
35.0
  Total
8.8 
34.6
100.0
2.4 
27.3
3.6 
40.9
2.8 
31.9
Households 
without access 
to a vehicle
Low 
income
0.5 
13.5
52.3
0.66
0.2 
32.4
0.2 
43.1
0.1 
24.5
Higher 
income
0.4 
7.3
47.6
0.69
0.1 
30.5
0.2 
41.5
0.1 
28.0
  Total
0.9 
9.6
99.9
0.3 
31.5
0.4 
42.3
0.2 
26.1
Non-White 
population
Low 
income
4.0 
40.8
66.7
0.75
1.1 
26.4
1.7 
41.5
1.3 
32.1
Higher 
income
2.0 
12.9
33.3
0.85
0.4 
22.3
0.7 
36.3
0.8 
41.5
  Total
6.0 
23.7
100.0
1.5 
25.0
2.4 
39.7
2.1 
35.3
Elderly 
population
Low 
income
1.4 
13.8
35.2
0.68
1.5 
30.7
0.6 
42.9
0.4 
26.4
Higher 
income
2.5 
16.1
64.8
0.78
1.5 
25.0
1.0 
39.5
0.9 
35.6
  Total
3.9 
15.2
100.0
3.0 
27.0
1.6 
40.7
1.3 
32.3
Source: USDA, ERS analysis based on data from Census of Population, 2000 and the ERS-compiled supermarket directory 
for the contiguous U.S. in 2006.

===== PAGE 38 =====
28
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
areas (93 percent) had better access than those who lived in low-income 
areas (85 percent).  This is in contrast to low-income populations in urban 
areas and urban clusters where low-income individuals who lived in 
low-income areas were closer to supermarkets than low-income individuals 
who lived in higher income areas.  For rural populations, supermarket access 
typically involves driving to an urban area or urban cluster, where higher 
population densities are more likely to contain larger stores.  Map 2.4 shows 
supermarket access of South Dakota, a largely rural state.  This map uses 
light blue shading to indicate the location of low-income areas.  Circles 
with the 10 and 20 mile radii around a supermarket indicate which areas are 
within each of these distances of a supermarket.  Finally, the brown shading 
scheme (white to dark brown) indicates population density (low to high).  
The map shows that there are several small towns in low-income portions 
of the State that are outside of a driving range from a supermarket (more 
Table 2.7
Rural areas access to supermarkets--overall and for income and demographic 
subpopulations (driving distance)
Distance to nearest supermarket
High access
(10 miles or less)
Medium access 
(Between 10-20 miles)
Low access
(More than 20 miles)
Population
Income 
level of 
area
Number 
(millions)
Total 
percent
Sub-
population 
percent 
Median 
(miles)
Number 
(millions)
Percent
Number 
(millions)
Percent
Number 
(millions)
Percent
Total population 
of rural areas
Low 
income 
16.1 
100.0
23.6
4.11
13.8 
85.7
1.9 
11.7
0.4 
2.6
Higher 
income
52.1 
100.0
76.4
3.42
49.1 
94.1
2.8 
5.3
0.3 
0.6
  Total
68.2 
100.0
100.0
62.8 
92.1
4.6 
6.8
0.7 
1.0
Subpopulations
Population with 
low income
Low 
income
7.7 
48.1
38.9
4.21
6.6 
85.0
0.9 
12.0
0.2 
3.0
Higher 
income
12.2 
23.3
61.1
3.70
11.3 
92.6
0.8 
6.6
0.1 
0.8
  Total
19.9 
29.2
100.0
17.8 
89.7
1.7 
8.7
0.3 
1.6
Households 
without access 
to a vehicle
Low 
income
0.6 
9.4
40.2
3.37
0.5 
87.3
0.1 
10.4
0.0 
2.3
Higher 
income
0.8 
4.2
59.8
3.08
0.8 
93.7
0.0 
5.7
0.0 
0.7
  Total
1.4 
5.4
100.0
1.2 
91.1
0.1 
7.6
0.0 
1.3
Non-White 
population
Low 
income
4.8 
29.9
48.4
3.65
4.1 
84.5
0.6 
12.0
0.2 
3.5
Higher 
income
5.1 
9.8
51.6
2.98
4.8 
94.6
0.2 
4.8
0.0 
0.6
  Total
9.9 
14.6
100.0
8.9 
89.8
0.8 
8.3
0.2 
2.0
Elderly 
population
Low 
income
2.1 
13.3
24.4
4.04
1.8 
84.4
0.3 
12.7
0.1 
2.9
Higher 
income
6.6 
12.7
75.6
3.32
6.1 
92.6
0.4 
6.6
0.1 
0.8
  Total
8.7 
12.8
100.0
7.9 
90.6
0.7 
8.1
0.1 
1.3
Source: USDA, ERS analysis based on data from Census of Population, 2000 and the ERS-compiled supermarket directory 
for the contiguous U.S. in 2006.

===== PAGE 39 =====
29
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
than 20 miles). Individuals in these areas, and in the surrounding sparsely 
populated areas, are likely to have considerable time and out-of-pocket costs 
to accessing food sources.  
There are also several Indian reservations in South Dakota, as well as in 
other rural areas, primarily in the Midwest and West.  These areas may be 
served by the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations (FDPIR), a 
commodity food assistance program for eligible Native Americans offered as 
an alternative to the SNAP.21  The locations of these distribution centers are 
not yet incorporated in the analysis but will be in the future. 
Obviously, those outside of walking distance to a store who do not have 
a vehicle in rural areas will face much higher transportation costs, both in 
terms of hiring transportation (taxi, shuttle, or public transportation if they 
exist at all) and in time costs in walking to the store or waiting for a friend 
or family member to take them to a store.  These households make up only 
a small share (5.4 percent) of the rural population in total and 9.4 percent of 
low-income people, yet most of them live between 1 mile and 10 miles from 
a supermarket.  Although this is a small portion of the overall population, the 
 
21The FDPIR operates in 23 States 
and served 90,100 persons in FY2008, 
primarily individuals living on or near 
Indian reservations
Map 2.4
Supermarket access in South Dakota

===== PAGE 40 =====
30
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
population certainly has very limited access to supermarkets based on driving 
distances.  
The non-White population represents 14.6 percent of the total rural 
population, or 9.9 million persons.  Of the non-White population, 51.6 
percent live in low-income areas.  Almost 90 percent of the non-White 
population lives within 10 miles of a supermarket.  Non-White individuals 
that live in low-income areas are more likely to reside more than 20 
miles from a supermarket than non-White individuals who did not live in 
low-income areas (3.5 percent, compared with less than 1 percent). 
Over 84 percent of elderly individuals in low-income rural areas were within 
10 miles of a supermarket, while another 12.7 percent were between 10 
and 20 miles.  Only 2.9 percent were more than 20 miles from the nearest 
supermarket.  
Time Costs of Access to Food
In addition to the effects of price, income, and the availability of different 
foods, consumers’ food shopping and consumption behavior may also be 
affected by the time costs of food shopping and food preparation.  Higher 
time costs of travel to grocery stores are likely associated with lower 
demand for those stores or for some foods.  Likewise, greater time costs 
of preparing some foods may be associated with lower demand for those 
foods.  ERS analysis of time diary data from the ATUS provides information 
about variations in time costs across areas with different levels of access to 
supermarkets and across different population groups.  
The ATUS collects information on how Americans spend their time.  
Sponsored by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS, http://stats.bls.gov/
tus/home.htm) and conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau, the ATUS is a 
continuous, monthly survey that started in January 2003.  The ATUS sample 
is nationally representative of civilian Americans age 15 and older, and the 
data include about 13,000 completed interviews annually.  Estimates from 
the survey show the range of detailed activities performed daily, how much 
time is spent in each activity as well as where and with whom, and how time 
is allocated by demographic group, labor force status, and weekdays versus 
weekends.
Table 2.8 shows the average time spent in travel to grocery shopping on an 
average day by level of access to the nearest supermarket (as deﬁ ned above).  
The table shows the average minutes spent traveling to grocery stores for 
shoppers who live in low-income areas with low, medium, and high access 
to supermarkets.22  These averages are compared with the national average.  
Overall, the national average time spent traveling, one-way, to the grocery 
store was almost 15 minutes, and about 14 percent of the population traveled 
to the grocery store on an average day.  
Time spent traveling to the grocery store was greater in low-income areas 
with low-access.  The average time spent traveling to the grocery store for 
those who lived in these areas, 19.5 minutes, was signiﬁ cantly greater than 
the average time spent traveling to the grocery store for those in low-income 
areas with high access (15.5 minutes) and for those in low-income areas 
 
22Survey respondents did not report 
which type of “grocery” store they vis-
ited, only that they reported the activity 
of grocery shopping.

===== PAGE 41 =====
31
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Table 2.8
Average time spent in travel to grocery shopping on an average day by access to grocery stores
Average time is one-way, not total travel time (based on the shortest one-way time). Pooled 2003-2007 American Time Use Survey data
Average minutes per day 
of travel related to grocery 
shopping, for those who 
grocery shopped
Average % engaged 
in travel related to 
grocery shopping 
(on an average day)
Average
minutes, 
90% CI 
min
Average
minutes, 
90% CI 
max
Average 
percent, 
90 CI min
Average 
percent, 
90% CI 
max
Minutes
Percent
Total population, age 15+, 2003-07
15.0
14.0
14.7
15.3
13.7
14.3
Low-income areas
  Low access
19.5
12.1
18.1
20.9
11.1
13.1
  Medium access
14.1
13.5
13.0
15.1
12.5
14.5
  High access
15.5
12.3
14.3
16.7
11.3
13.4
Not-low-income areas
  Low access
15.9
14.4
15.2
16.5
13.7
15.1
  Medium access
12.5
14.7
12.1
12.9
14.1
15.3
  High access
13.3
16.3
12.6
14.1
15.4
17.3
Metropolitan areas, 2005-07
14.2
13.9
13.8
14.6
13.4
14.3
Low-income areas
  Low access
20.4
12.9
17.5
23.3
10.7
15.0
  Medium access
14.4
11.7
13.1
15.6
10.2
13.1
  High access
15.5
11.5
13.7
17.3
10.0
13.1
Not-low-income areas
  Low access
15.5
14.3
14.8
16.3
13.4
15.2
  Medium access
12.1
14.0
11.5
12.6
13.2
14.7
  High access
12.9
15.9
11.9
13.7
14.6
17.2
Nonmetropolitan areas, 2005-07
16.9
12.2
15.8
18.0
11.5
13.0
Low-income areas
  Low access
18.8
11.0
16.9
20.6
9.6
12.4
  Medium access
11.2
13.6
8.4
14.0
10.7
16.6
  High access
--
11.8
--
--
6.3
17.4
Not-low-income areas
  Low access
--
16.0
--
--
8.3
23.6
  Medium access
--
--
--
--
--
--
  High access
--
--
--
--
--
--
Note: 2003 Met/nonmet classiﬁ cation used for 2005-07 data.
Income, 2003-07
Household Income <= 200% 
  poverty threshold
15.8
13.6
15.3
16.4
13.0
14.2
Low-income areas
  Low access
19.3
13.7
17.3
21.3
12.2
15.1
  Medium access
14.2
13.4
13.1
15.3
12.0
14.7
  High access
16.4
12.5
14.5
18.2
11.0
14.0
Not-low-income areas
  Low access
16.3
14.7
15.0
17.6
13.2
16.3
  Medium access
13.6
13.3
12.6
14.7
12.0
14.6
  High access
2.3
16.7
11.1
13.6
14.6
18.8
Household Income > 200% poverty 
  threshold
14.2
14.2
13.9
14.6
13.8
14.7
Low-income areas
  Low access
20.5
11.3
18.3
22.6
9.8
12.8
  Medium access
12.1
14.1
10.9
13.4
12.3
15.8
  High access
13.5
12.6
11.9
15.2
10.9
14.4
Not-low-income areas
  Low access
15.6
14.3
14.8
16.4
13.4
15.2
  Medium access
11.8
15.0
11.4
12.3
14.2
15.9
  High access
13.4
16.3
12.3
14.4
15.1
17.6

===== PAGE 42 =====
32
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
with medium access (14.1 minutes).  These differences are large and 
statistically signiﬁ cant.  In addition, those in low-access areas shopped less 
frequently—on average once every 8 days versus a national average of once 
every 7 days.   
The difference in average time spent traveling to the grocery store by access 
level may not be surprising given that this study’s deﬁ nition of access is 
based on distance, and that, all else equal, it is expected that those who live 
more than 1 mile from a supermarket would spend more time traveling to 
the grocery store than those who live less than half a mile or less than a mile 
from the supermarket.  To put these averages into context, table 2.8 also 
reports average time spent traveling to grocery stores by households in higher 
income areas separately by their access levels.  As expected, those with low 
access spend the most time traveling to the grocery store (15.8 minutes) 
compared with those who are closer.  But the average of those in higher 
income areas that are more than a mile from a store is still almost 4 minutes 
shorter than the 19.5 minute average of those in low-income areas who are 
more than a mile from a grocery store. 
Table 2.8 also considers average time spent traveling to get groceries for 
sample members living in metropolitan (metro) areas compared with those 
living in nonmetropolitan (nonmetro) areas.23  Not surprisingly, those who 
live in nonmetro areas spent more time, on average (16.9 minutes), traveling 
to the grocery store than those living in metro areas (14.2 minutes), and a 
smaller percent of nonmetro residents shopped on an average day than metro 
residents.  Surprisingly, those in nonmetro areas with low access spend about 
the same amount of time traveling to supermarkets as those in metro areas 
with low access.    
The ﬁ nal set of averages shown in table 2.8 compares average time spent 
traveling to grocery stores for those with household income below 200 
percent of Federal poverty guidelines and for those with income above 200 
percent of poverty.  Also included are national estimates for the 13 percent of 
the sample with missing income information.  Those with low income who 
 
23There are not enough households 
in urban clusters or rural areas in the 
sample to examine average minutes 
spent traveling to supermarkets across 
the same urbanicity categories used 
above, so here we focus on metro and 
nonmetro statistical areas.
Table 2.8
Average time spent in travel to grocery shopping on an average day by access to grocery stores (continued)
Average time is one-way, not total travel time (based on the shortest one-way time). Pooled 2003-2007 American Time Use Survey data
Average minutes per day 
of travel related to grocery 
shopping, for those who 
grocery shopped
Average % engaged 
in travel related to 
grocery shopping 
(on an average day)
Average
minutes, 
90% CI 
min
Average
minutes, 
90% CI 
max
Average 
percent, 
90 CI min
Average 
percent, 
90% CI 
max
Minutes
Percent
Household Income missing
16.3
13.9
15.4
17.2
13.1
14.7
Low-income areas
  Low access
17.7
9.7
14.4
21.1
7.5
12.0
  Medium access
19.4
12.3
14.5
24.5
9.6
14.9
  High access
17.0
11.2
12.8
21.1
8.8
13.5
Not-low-income areas
  Low access
16.5
14.4
14.9
18.0
12.5
16.3
  Medium access
14.4
15.0
12.9
15.8
13.1
16.9
  High access
14.4
15.9
12.4
16.4
13.5
18.3
-- indicates that estimate is suppressed due to small cell size.
Source:  2003-2007 American Time Use Survey data, Current Population Survey sampling frame from Census Bureau. 
Store access levels are tract-level classiﬁ cations based on categories of access used in Chapter 2. 
Data with missing tract-level classiﬁ cation were included in Total population, age 15+ estimates.

===== PAGE 43 =====
33
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
live in low-income areas with low access spend about the same amount of 
time traveling to grocery stores (19.3 minutes) as those who do not have low 
income but who live in low-income areas with low access to grocery stores 
(20.5 minutes).  In contrast, those with low income who live in low-income 
areas with medium or high access take more time to get to the grocery store 
(14.2 minutes and 16.4 minutes, respectively) than those who do not have 
low income but who live in low-income areas with medium (12.1 minutes) 
or high access (13.5 minutes).  It is possible that these higher income 
individuals in low-income areas have access to their own vehicles for grocery 
shopping and choose to shop outside their neighborhoods.  
These data show some expected patterns, but it is difﬁ cult to interpret 
without further information.  For example, it is not known whether shoppers 
in the time use sample go to the nearest grocery store to do their shopping or 
if they are selectively shopping further from their neighborhood because of 
price or availability factors.  If the latter is true, these time use estimates do 
not reﬂ ect true differences in access, just differences in choice.  Of course, it 
is not clear whether these differences in choices are correlated with the area-
level measures of access or not—for example, if those in low-access areas 
pass several stores that may not have the foods they want to get to stores with 
better selection or price.  
Table 2.9 shows the mode of transportation used in getting to grocery 
stores.24  These results show that the majority of people who shopped for 
groceries drove to the store as either the driver of a vehicle or as a passenger 
with another household member.  Those with the lowest levels of access 
were the most likely to drive to the grocery store (93.3 percent, compared 
with 87.1 percent for medium-access shoppers and 65.3 percent for high-
access shoppers).  Those who lived closest to grocery stores were more likely 
to walk or bicycle to the store than those in low or medium access areas (23.1 
percent, compared with 2.3 and 5.4 percent for those with low and medium 
access).  Very few shoppers used public transportation to get to a grocery 
store.  Only 4 percent of shoppers in low-access areas got rides to the grocery 
store with nonhousehold members or in taxis, while 10 percent of shoppers in 
high-access areas got rides to grocery stores with nonhousehold members or 
in taxis. 
Grocery shoppers from low-access areas were more likely to have been 
accompanied by children on their trips to the grocery store than others—29.1 
percent versus a national average of 22.8 percent.  Having children along 
on the trip is likely to make the trip more cumbersome, making travel and 
grocery shopping more difﬁ cult for these low-access shoppers.
The last rows in table 2.9 show whether grocery shoppers shop from home 
or from work, or their trip chaining patterns.25  For the majority of shoppers, 
the time distance from the grocery store to home is shorter than the time 
distance from the grocery store to work (about 92 percent).  But for about 8 
percent, the time distance from work to the grocery store was shorter than 
the time distance from home to the grocery store (5.9 percent directly from 
work to the grocery store and 2.1 percent clustered with other stops from 
work to the grocery store).  Interestingly, those in low-income areas with low 
access were the most likely to access grocery stores directly, bunched with 
other activities, or from work (7.7 percent directly from work and 3.6 percent 
 
24Mode of transportation estimates 
are for all grocery shoppers, not just 
low-income grocery shoppers.  
25Appendix C contains information on 
how trip chaining was classiﬁ ed.  

===== PAGE 44 =====
34
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
bunched with other activities from work).  Those from low-income areas that 
had medium or high levels of access were less likely to access grocery stores 
from work.  These data indicate that some of those who live in low income 
areas with low access choose grocery stores closer to work than to home.         
Data presented here are for the entire U.S. population.  One study speciﬁ cally 
focused on a sample of low-income people.  The National Food Stamp 
Program Survey of 1996/1997 (NFSPS) surveyed a sample of participants 
of the SNAP and eligible nonparticipants.  Sample members were asked 
about the modes of transportation and out-of-pocket costs used to travel 
to stores where they shopped for food and about how much time it took to 
travel to foodstores (Ohls et al., 1999).  Close to 76 percent of participants 
and 85 percent of eligible nonparticipants reported use of a car to shop.  
Food stamp participants either drove (45 percent) or got a ride with family 
or friends (31 percent).  Among the 22 percent of participants who reported 
some transportation expenses, the average cost per shopping trip was $6.54.  
Average round trip travel time to the most frequently used store was 23-24 
minutes for participants and eligible nonparticipants.  The survey compared 
these patterns across participants who lived in urban, mixed, and rural areas.  
Table 2.9
Characteristics of grocery shopping by level of access to supermarkets
Characteristics are of one-way shortest travel time to grocery store. 
Pooled 2003-2007 American Time Use Survey data
Low-income areas
Not-low-income areas
Total
Low 
access
Medium 
access
High 
access
Low 
access
Medium 
access
High 
access
Percent
Mode of transportation
  1. Car, truck, motorcycle (driver or passenger w/hh member)
90.2
93.3
87.1
65.3
96.7
92.3
83.9
  2. Walking or bicycle
4.8
2.3
5.4
23.1
0.3
3.1
10.0
  3. Public transportation (bus, subway/train)
0.3
0.1
0.9
1.9
0.0
0.3
0.3
  4. Other (passenger w/nonhh member, boat/ferry, 
      taxi/limo, unspeciﬁ ed)
4.8
4.3
6.6
9.7
2.9
4.4
5.8
Total
100.0
100.0
100.00
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.00
With whom
  Alone
48.8
40.0
39.0
40.8
49.9
52.7
53.6
  With household members
42.1
49.3
49.9
46.1
41.1
39.5
37.9
  With others, not household members
9.1
10.8
11.1
13.1
9.1
7.8
8.6
Total
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
  With children (persons under 18 years old)
22.8
29.1
28.2
32.8
20.3
22.6
19.4
Note that “with whom” is for travel to grocery store, and not grocery shopping. The person or 
persons with the respondent may only be present for part of the travel. 
Trip chaining
  Home to store, direct / Store to home direct
63.6
54.8
64.1
61.0
64.5
68.4
66.6
  Home to store, clustered activities/ Store to home, clustered activities
28.4
33.9
31.1
34.9
26.5
25.8
26.3
  Work to store, direct / Store to work direct
5.9
7.7
3.5
3.3
6.6
3.9
5.9
  Work to store, clustered activities/ Store to work, clustered activities
2.1
3.6
1.4
0.8
2.5
1.9
1.3
Total
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
Source:  2003-2007 American Time Use Survey data, Current Population Survey sampling frame from Census Bureau.  Store 
access levels are tract-level classiﬁ cations based on categories of access used in Chapter 2.  Data with missing tract-level 
classiﬁ cation were included in Total population estimates.

===== PAGE 45 =====
35
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Average distance, time, and out-of-pocket cost to the most often used store 
were greater for those living in rural settings.  Rural participants were less 
likely than their urban area counterparts to report out-of-pocket expenses 
associated with food shopping—perhaps because 94 percent either drove or 
got a ride with others.  
Time costs to travel to grocery stores are only part of the time costs involved 
in healthy eating—preparing nutritious food can be more costly in terms 
of time than prepared meals or restaurant meals.  Previous ERS research 
examined time spent in food preparation for women across income levels 
and family composition.  This study found that being a mother who worked 
full-time or a single mother were more important in explaining differences in 
time spent in food preparation than were either earnings or income (Mancino 
and Newman, 2007).  Speciﬁ cally, food preparation time falls as mothers 
spend more time working outside the home.  Single women with children 
spend less time preparing food than married women.
Summary 
The number of people who have low access to healthy food depends upon 
which measure is used.  Direct questions from a nationally representative 
sample of U.S. households in 2001 show that up to 5.7 percent of all U.S. 
households did not always have the food they wanted or needed because of 
access-related problems.  Households that live far from a supermarket and 
that do not have vehicles likely have limited access to nutritious food.  Of 
all households in the U.S., 2.3 million, or 2.2 percent, live more than a mile 
from a supermarket and do not have access to a vehicle.  An addition 3.4 
million households, or 3.2 percent of all households, live between one-half to 
1 mile and do not have access to a vehicle.  
Area-based measures of access show that 23.5 million people live in 
low-income areas that are more than 1 mile from a supermarket, which 
represents 8.4 percent of the total U.S. population.  However, not all of these 
23.5 million are themselves, low income.  If only the low-income people 
in low-income areas are considered, then 11.5 million, or 4.1 percent of the 
total U.S. population, lives in low-income areas more than 1 mile from a 
supermarket.  Both of these estimates are national totals that do not consider 
differences in distance, travel modes and travel patterns, and retail markets 
for urban versus rural areas.  
Within urban areas, 10.1 million low-income individuals (20.2 percent) were 
more than 1 mile from the nearest supermarket.  Of the total, 3.6 million 
lived in low-income areas.  Within urban clusters, 1.4 million persons, 
or 29.3 percent of the low-income population, were more than 1 mile 
from the nearest supermarket.  Of the 16.1 million persons living in rural 
low-income areas, 85.7 percent (13.7 million persons) were within 10 miles 
of a supermarket.  Another 11.7 percent (1.9 million persons) were between 
10 and 20 miles distant, and only 2.6 percent were more than 20 miles from 
a supermarket.  These differences underscore the importance of owning a 
vehicle or having access to affordable transportation in rural areas.  
Data on time use and travel mode show that those who live in low-income 
areas that are more than a mile from a supermarket spend more time (19.5 

===== PAGE 46 =====
36
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
minutes) traveling to grocery stores than the national average (15 minutes).  
However, 93 percent of those who live in low-income areas more than a mile 
from a supermarket traveled to the grocery store in a vehicle they or another 
household member drove. 
While considerable efforts were made to develop these data, measures, and 
methods, different assumptions and measures are likely to produce differing 
outcomes and conclusions when applied to the same data.  More detailed 
information which is not currently available would likely result in more 
precise ﬁ ndings.  It is hoped that the methods and ﬁ ndings in this chapter 
will stimulate new research to provide additional insights about the nature 
and extent of low-income populations faced with low access to sources of 
nutritious and affordable foods.
References
Algert, S., J. Aditya Agrawal, and D. Lewis (2006).  “Disparities in Access 
to Fresh Produce in Low-Income Neighborhoods in Los Angeles,” American 
Journal of Preventive Medicine 30(5):  365-370. 
Andrews, M., L.S. Kantor, M. Lino, and D. Ripplinger (2001). “Using 
USDA’s Thrifty Food Plan to Assess Food Availability and Affordability,” 
Food Review, 24 2, pp. 45-53.
Apparicio, P, M. Cloutier, and R. Shearmur (2007).  “The Case of Montréal’s 
Missing Food Deserts: Evaluation of Accessibility to Food Supermarkets,” 
International Journal of Health Geographics, 2007, 6:4.
Auchincloss A.,  A. Diez Roux, A. Brown, D. Erdmann, and A. Bertoni 
(2008). “Neighborhood Resources for Physical Activity and Healthy 
Foods and Their Association With Insulin Resistance,” Epidemiology, 
2008;19(1):146-157. 
Block D, and Kouba, J. (2006) A Comparison of the Availability and 
Affordability of a Market Basket in Two Communities in the Chicago Area, 
Public Health Nutrition. October, 9(7):837-845.
California Center for Public Health Advocacy, PolicyLink, and UCLA 
Center for Health Policy Research (2008).  Designed for Disease: The Link 
Between Local Food Environments and Obesity and Diabetes. 
Census of Population, 2000.  U.S. Census Bureau (www.census.gov). 
Chung, C., and S.L. Myers (1999). “Do the Poor Pay More for Food? An 
Analysis of Grocery Store Availability and Food Price Disparities,” Journal 
of Consumer Affairs 33: 276-96.
Cotterill, R., and A. Franklin (1995). “The Urban Grocery Store Gap,” Food 
Marketing Policy Center, University of Connecticut. 
Cummins, S., and S. Macintyre (2006).  Food Environments and Obesity—
Neighborhood or Nation? International Journal of Epidemiology, 35: 
100-104.  

===== PAGE 47 =====
37
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Donohue, R.M. (1997). “Abandonment and Revitalization of Central City 
Retailing: The Case of Grocery Stores,” The University of Michigan DAI-A 
58/10.
Fan, Jessie X., L. Kowaleski-Jones, I. Yamada, C. Zick, K. Smith, and B. 
Brown. “Alternative Measures of Food Deserts: Fruitful Options or Empty 
Cupboards?”  National Poverty Center Working Paper, http://www.npc.
umich.edu/news/events/food-access/index.php 
Franco M, A.V. Diez Roux, T.A. Glass, B. Caballero, F.L. Brancati 
(forthcoming). “Neighborhood Characteristics and Availability of Healthy 
Foods in Baltimore,” American Journal of Preventive Medicine.
Gallagher, M. (2007).  Examining the Impact of Food Deserts on Public 
Health in Detroit, Mari Gallagher Research & Consulting Group.
Gallagher, M. (2006). Examining the Impact of Food Deserts on Public 
Health in Chicago, Mari Gallagher Research & Consulting Group.
Kaufman, P. (1999).  “Rural Poor Have Less Access to Supermarkets, Large 
Grocery Stores,” Rural Development Perspectives, Vol. 13, No. 3, April.
Kaufman, P., et al. (1997). Do the Poor Pay More for Food? Item 
Selection and Price Differences Affect Low-Income Household Food Costs, 
Agricultural Economic Report No. 759, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
Economic Research Service.
Mancino, L., and C. Newman (2007).  Who Has Time to Cook?  How Family 
Resources Inﬂ uence Food Preparation, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
Economic Research Service, Economic Research Report No. 40, http://www.
ers.usda.gov/publications/ERR40/err40.pdf
Marketing Guidebook, 2008 (annual).  Progressive Grocer’s Trade 
Dimensions.
Moore, L., and A. Diez Roux (2006).  “Associations of Neighborhood 
Characteristics With the Location and Type of Food Stores,” American 
Journal of Public Health, February, Vol. 96, No. 2, pp. 325-331.
Mantovani, R.E., Daft, L., Macaluso, T.F., & Welsh, J., & Hoffman, K. 
(1997, February). Authorized Food Retailer Characteristics Study (Technical 
Report IV): Authorized Food Retailers’ Characteristics and Access Study. 
Report submitted to U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition 
Service by Macro International, Inc.
Martinez, Steve and Phil Kaufman (2008).  “Twenty Years of Competition 
Reshape the U.S. Marketing System,” Amber Waves, April 2008: 
Morton, L.W., and T.C. Blanchard (2007).  “Starved for Access: Life in 
Rural America’s Food Deserts,” Rural Realities 1(4):  1-10.
Nayga, R., and Z. Weinberg (1999). “Supermarket Access in the Inner 
Cities,” Journal of Retailing and Consumer Service 6: 141-145.

===== PAGE 48 =====
38
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Neckerman, Kathryn M., M. Bader, M. Purciel, and P. Yousefzadeh (2009).  
“Measuring Food Access in Urban Areas,” National Poverty Center Working 
Paper, http://www.npc.umich.edu/news/events/food-access/index.php 
Nord, M., M. Andrews, and S. Carlson (2008).  Household Food Security in 
the United States, 2007, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Economic Research 
Service, Economic Research Report No. 66, November.
O’Connor, J., and B. Abell. “Successful Supermarkets in Low Income Inner 
Cities,” http://www.nal.usda.gov/foodstamp/FOODSTAMPREPORTS/
FSP-341.PDF.
Ohls, J.C., M. Ponza, L. Moreno, A. Zambrowski, R. Cohen (1999). Food 
Stamp Participants’ Access to Food Retailers, Report submitted to U.S. 
Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, by Mathematica 
Policy Research, Inc.
Pike, J. (2000). “Boston’s Poor Pay More For Food, Theft and Other 
Problems Increase Business Costs, Prices,” Massachusetts News, August 2.
Rose, Donald, J. N. Bodor, C. Swalm, J. Rice, T. Farley, and P. Hutchinson 
(2009).  “Deserts In New Orleans? Illustrations of Urban Food Access and 
Implications for Policy,” National Poverty Center Working Paper, http://
www.npc.umich.edu/news/events/food-access/index.php 
SEDAC (2006).  “Socioeconomic Data and Applications Center,” www.
sedac.ciesin.columbia.edu/
Sharkey, J., and S. Horel (2009).  “Characteristics of Potential Spatial Access 
to a Variety of Fruits and Vegetables in a Large Rural Area,” National Policy 
Center Working Paper, http://www.npc.umich.edu/news/events/food-access/
index.php
Sparks, A., N. Bania, and L. Leete (2009).  “Finding Food Deserts: 
A Comparison of Approaches to Measuring Spatial Accessibility to 
Supermarkets in Portland, Oregon,” National Policy Center Working Paper, 
http://www.npc.umich.edu/news/events/food-access/index.php 
U.S. Census Bureau (2009).  “Poverty Thresholds by Size of Family and 
Number of Children,” http://www.census.gov/hhes/www/poverty/threshld.
html 
U.S. Department of Agriculture, Economic Research Service, 2009.  Food 
Expenditure Data Series, Table 17.
Wrigley, N., D. Warm, and B. Margetts (2003).  “Deprivation, Diet, and 
Food Retail Access: Findings from the Leeds “Food deserts” Study,” 
Environment and Planning A, 35(1): 151-188.
Zenk S.N., A.J. Schulz, B.A. Israel, S.A. James et al. (2005). “Neighborhood 
Racial Composition, Neighborhood Poverty, and the Spatial Accessibility of 
Supermarkets in Metropolitan Detroit,” American Journal of Public Health, 
2005; 95(4):660.

===== PAGE 49 =====
39
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
CHAPTER 3
The Interaction of Neighborhood and 
Household Characteristics in Explaining 
Areas With Limited Access
The food deserts literature suggests that those who have better access 
to supermarkets tend to have healthier diets and lower levels of obesity 
and related diseases (Laraia et al., 2007; Larson et al., 2009).  However, 
the extent to which limited access to supermarkets and other differential 
aspects of the food environment contribute to known economic and racial 
health disparities remains unclear.  That lack of clarity stems in part from 
conﬂ icting ﬁ ndings with regard to access to supermarkets for low-income, 
minority, and racially mixed neighborhoods.  Some researchers have 
found economically disadvantaged populations and neighborhoods with 
high concentrations of racial minorities to have better access than their 
counterparts (e.g., Moore and Diez Roux, 2006), while others have found the 
reverse (e.g., Burns and Inglis, 2007).  There is substantial literature showing 
that low-income and minority populations are disproportionately at risk 
when it comes to major public health concerns (e.g., Diez Roux et al., 2001; 
Odoms-Young et al., 2009).  But critical gaps remain in the understanding of 
the associations between the neighborhood food environment and indicators 
of health.  Investigators have made considerable gains in the development of 
approaches to better characterize neighborhood food environments and thus 
identify the mechanisms that underlie those associations between the food 
environment and poor health outcomes (e.g., Moore et al., 2008; Sharkey, 
2009), but doing so continues to be a major challenge.  
This chapter uses physical distance to the nearest supermarket as a measure 
of access, but also extends the analysis to include distance to the third 
nearest supermarket, which serves as a proxy for variety (Apparicio et al., 
2007).  Access in relation to the neighborhood and household socioeconomic 
environment is also explicitly examined.  Examining areas of low-access 
to food from a socioeconomic perspective as such is both theoretically and 
empirically important.  In theory, those with the lowest incomes, living in the 
most disadvantaged places, will have limited provisional access in general, 
whether in reference to food, health care, transportation, or other services 
and resources. Further, households that lack access to a vehicle (particularly 
in rural areas) or have very few ﬁ nancial resources may have difﬁ culty 
purchasing affordable and nutritious food, which in turn may translate into 
poor health (Bostock, 2001).  Lack of access to food and poor health could be 
ampliﬁ ed if the same households live in a disadvantaged neighborhood, such 
as one where public transportation options are nonexistent and food retail 
choices are limited (Ford and Dzewaltowski, 2008).  
There are a number of phrases used in the health inequalities literature 
to capture the relationship between household and neighborhood risk 
factors (e.g., pathways of disadvantage).  The one utilized in this study 
is “deprivation ampliﬁ cation” (Macintyre et al., 2008).  Deprivation 
ampliﬁ cation is best explained as a process that could impact an individual’s 
health whereby, for example, risk factors for obesity, such as low-income, 
combined with limited knowledge about nutrition are intensiﬁ ed by exposure 

===== PAGE 50 =====
40
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
to a food retail environment that offers too few choices for nutritious food 
and/or too many options for less nutritious alternatives.  Thus, the food 
environments of low-income populations require special consideration due 
to the vulnerability of the individuals as well as that of the unique social and 
physical setting in which they live (Gittelsohn and Sharma, 2009).  
Empirical evidence suggests that deprivation ampliﬁ cation may be more of 
a problem in the United States than in the United Kingdom and elsewhere 
where food desert research has been conducted.  That is, while research 
on food deserts in the United States is in its infancy, research completed 
to date shows that in comparison to other country studies (e.g., Pearce et 
al., 2009) complex social and physical contexts are greater determinants of 
health outcomes for the low-income population of the United States than 
for the European counterparts.  Cummins and Macintyre (2006) suggest 
that one explanation for this uniquely U.S. “contextual effect” may be 
that “residential segregation along socioeconomic and racial lines may be 
more pronounced in the USA and planning regulations less focused on 
compensating for such segregation than in the UK, continental Europe, or 
Australia.”  A number of studies lend support to this notion (e.g., Franco 
et al., 2008; Galvez et al., 2008; Morland et al., 2002).  Thus, while the 
main objective of this analysis is to determine the characteristics that best 
differentiate groups with dissimilar levels of supermarket access (i.e., low, 
medium, or high), the secondary objective is to examine segregation based 
on race and income inequality as a determinant of low supermarket access in 
comparison to other neighborhood and household contextual risk factors.
Research Method and Indicators
The research method applied to this study is referred to as multiple 
discriminant analysis, or MDA.  This approach is useful to understand the 
differences between groups, to identify which variables best capture those 
differences, to describe the dimensionality of groups, or to test theories 
or taxonomies (Huberty and Lowman, 1997).26  In health geography and 
inequality research it is often used to discover the variables that contribute 
to group separation and to describe grouping variable effects.  For example, 
Hemphill et al. (2008) used discriminant analysis to explore the relationship 
between the placement of fast food outlets and neighborhood-level 
socioeconomic variables, where neighborhoods were classiﬁ ed as high-, 
medium-, or low-access based on the number of fast food opportunities 
available to them.  The study found signiﬁ cant differences between the three 
levels of fast food accessibility across the socioeconomic variables, with 
successively greater percentages of unemployment, low-income, and renters 
in neighborhoods with increasingly greater access to fast food restaurants.  
Several of these variables were also found to be predictive of greater access 
to fast food restaurants.
Similarly, discriminant analysis is used here to capture the characteristics 
that best differentiate urban and rural neighborhoods grouped into low-, 
medium-, and high-access categories given distance to ﬁ rst and third nearest 
supermarkets (i.e., supermarket proximity and variety).  Those relative 
accessibility measures were determined based on the criterion given in the 
previous chapter (i.e., with low-access deﬁ ned by a distance greater than 
1 mile for walking and 20 miles for driving, medium-access deﬁ ned by a 
 
26Discriminant analysis is conceptu-
ally and mathematically analogous 
to multiple regression analysis.  Both 
techniques involve calculating from a 
set of continuous predictor variables 
to a criterion.  The primary differ-
ence is that the dependent variables 
in discriminant analysis are linearly 
combined mathematically to maxi-
mally discriminate between the groups, 
thereby emphasizing group differences 
and deemphasizing group similarities.  
In other words, multiple discriminant 
analysis calculates a linear equation 
using standardized discriminant func-
tion coefﬁ cients, which are analogous 
to beta weights in regression.  As such, 
similar to regression, these coefﬁ cients 
identify the relative importance of each 
continuous variable in predicting the 
criterion.  However, unlike regression 
analysis, the dependent variables are 
linearly combined to create a synthetic 
or composite dependent variable that 
separates or maximally differentiates 
the groups.

===== PAGE 51 =====
41
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
distance between one-half and 1 mile for walking and between 10 and 20 
miles for driving, and high-access deﬁ ned by a distance less than one-half 
mile for walking and 10 miles for driving).  However, for this analysis, the 
geographic area of interest is neighborhoods, for which Census tracts are 
commonly used proxies.  As such, the grid-deﬁ ned distance measures used in 
Chapter 2 were aggregated to the Census tract for this study.27 
As with the area-based analysis in Chapter 2, little variation was found 
among subpopulations with respect to distance measures and access levels.  
For example, based on distance alone, the low-income population was found 
to be no worse off than female-headed households with children, or the 
African-American population, the severely poor (50 percent of the poverty 
income threshold), or any other vulnerable population.  Likewise, non-White 
and low-income populations were found to have better access than their 
counterparts, and lack of access to a vehicle within the household did not 
emerge as a deﬁ ning characteristic of low access.  With respect to the latter, 
walking distance to a variety of supermarkets proved to be the greatest access 
barrier for low-income households with or without a vehicle, in either urban 
or rural neighborhoods.  Yet, the same was determined for all neighborhoods 
regardless of whether they were low-income or not, leading us to conclude 
that low access in general is not speciﬁ cally a low-income area phenomenon. 
FFor this reason, this study does not limit the discriminant analysis to 
low-income areas; it includes all neighborhoods in the analytical models.  
In keeping with the geography applied to the area-based analysis, the study 
categorizes those neighborhoods as being located in metro core, micropolitan 
or small town core, and rural tracts, which are census tract-level equivalents 
of urbanized areas, urban clusters, and rural areas, respectively.28 Using that 
geography in association with the access groups (a dependent variable), 12 
independent discriminant analyses are conducted—one for each of the three 
geographic groups given walking and driving distances to ﬁ rst and third 
nearest supermarkets (see table 3.1 for group frequencies). 
A number of factors were included in each analysis in addition to a select 
set of socio-economic indicators believed to be potential predictors of group 
membership given existing literature on vulnerable people and places.29  The 
factors consisted of indicators of neighborhood and household composition 
that have previously been associated with deprivation, such as householder 
age and race/ethnicity, income and education levels, household structure, 
area population density, and degree of rurality.  The predictor variables 
consisted of indicators of neighborhood context that are hypothesized to be 
associated with deprivation ampliﬁ cation, such as depth and persistence of 
poverty, housing values and vacancy rates, area unemployment and labor 
force participation rates, low-income concentration, and segregation based 
on race and income.  Most of these variables are straightforward and require 
little explanation, but there are a few exceptions for which additional details 
are provided below.  Summary statistics for each are given in table 3.2.  
• Dissimilarity index of segregation: This variable captures dissimilarity 
by race or the evenness with which one racial population group is located 
(or segregated) within an area with respect to another racial group. The 
dissimilarity statistic is interpreted as the proportion of one racial group 
that would need to relocate to another neighborhood (census tract) in 
 
27Speciﬁ cally, tract-level distance 
measures were calculated by ﬁ rst as-
signing grids to 2000 Census deﬁ ned 
tracts.  Then median distances for all 
grids within a tract were computed, 
including total tract population and 
population-speciﬁ c distances to the 
nearest and third closest supermarket 
based on income, age, race/ethnicity, 
and various household characteristics 
(e.g., households without a vehicle 
and female-headed households with 
children).
 
28These tract-level geographic 
designations are based on ERS 2000 
Rural-Urban Commuting Area (RUCA) 
Codes, which were developed using 
the same theoretical concepts used by 
the Ofﬁ ce of Management and Budget 
to deﬁ ne county-level metropolitan 
and micropolitan areas.  Metropolitan 
cores (code 1) are deﬁ ned as census 
tract equivalents of urbanized areas.  
Micropolitan and small town cores 
(codes 4 and 7) are tract equivalents of 
urban clusters.  And, rural tract (code 
10) designation is deﬁ ned by a primary 
commuting ﬂ ow that is local or to 
another rural tract.  
  29All factor and predictor variable 
data stem from RAND’s Center for 
Population Health and Health Dispari-
ties Data Core (http://www.rand.org/
health/centers/pophealth/data.html).  
The RAND data include a range of 
census-based variables tabulated to 
capture various characteristics known 
to be correlated with health disparities, 
such as standard measures of socio-
economic disadvantage (e.g., unem-
ployment, poverty, and education), 
disability by type and population, cost 
of living, segregation, unevenness, 
and inequality by race and/or income, 
alternative measures of environmental 
pollution by level and type, and vari-
ous forms of physical access based on 
extent of roadway connectivity and 
complexity.  The full range of potential 
factor and predictor variables from the 
RAND data were initially considered 
for analysis and selection of variables 
was based on a standard variable reduc-
tion process (e.g., univariate analysis to 
determine signiﬁ cance and elimination 
of redundant or overlapping variables).

===== PAGE 52 =====
42
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
order to be evenly distributed across the county (or metro area) with 
respect to other racial groups.  A dissimilarity statistic value of 0 reﬂ ects 
absolute integration while a value of 1 reﬂ ects absolute segregation.
• Gini index of segregation: This variable represents income inequality by 
race.  The Gini statistic is understood much like the dissimilarity statistic. 
It ranges in value from 0 to 1 with 0 indicating complete equality and 1 
indicating complete inequality.  In other words, higher values indicate 
that the study area is more unequal in terms of how income is distributed 
among racial groups while lower values mean that income is more 
equally distributed.
• Roadway connectivity (alpha):  This measure is used to examine 
connectivity with respect to the availability of alternative travel routes 
within a tract.  The alpha value represents the ratio of the actual number 
of complete loops to the maximum number of possible loops given the 
number of tract intersections.  A higher alpha value indicates a greater 
degree of roadway complexity and connectivity, and thereby serves as an 
indicator of access to supermarkets given the extent of the area’s physical 
transportation infrastructure.   
• Index of disadvantage: This is a normalized socioeconomic status 
measure for all census tracts developed from six measures understood 
to represent disadvantage: percent of adults older than age 25 with less 
than a high school education; percent male unemployment; percent of 
households with income below the poverty line; percent of households 
Table 3.1
Access Category Variables and Corresponding Percent Frequency: Metro Core, 
Micropolitan / Small Town Core, and Rural Tracts
Access category variables
Percent of metro core tracts
Percent of micropolitan 
or small-town core tracts
Percent of rural tracts 
Percent
Walking--1 store (proximity)
  High access
31.5
12.4
1.3
  Medium access
42.6
46.9
8.6
  Low access
25.9
40.7
90.1
Driving--1 store (proximity)
  High access
100.0
99.8
75.8
  Medium access
0.0
0.1
17.8
  Low access
0.0
0.1
6.4
Walking--3 stores (variety)
  High access
0.0
0.0
0.0
  Medium access
12.8
3.3
0.3
  Low access
87.2
96.7
99.7
Driving--3 stores (variety)
  High access
100.0
84.5
32.5
  Medium access
0.0
11.0
45.5
  Low access
0.0
4.5
22.0
Source: USDA, ERS estimations based on 2006 ERS-compiled directory of supermarkets and RAND’s Center for Population Health 
and Health Disparities Data Care.

===== PAGE 53 =====
43
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
receiving public assistance; percent of female-headed households with 
children; and median household income.  The index is scaled such that 
the values fall between 0 and 100, with the lower number indicating a 
greater degree of tract disadvantage than a tract with a higher number.
• Linguistically isolated households: A linguistically isolated household is 
deﬁ ned as one in which no member age 14 or older speaks only English 
or speaks a non-English language while also being able to speak English 
well.  In other words, for a household to be declared linguistically 
isolated then at least one member age 14 or older must have some 
difﬁ culty with the English language. 
• Persistent poverty counties: This designation is based on the ERS 
2004 County Typology, which classiﬁ es all U.S. counties according 
to six non-overlapping categories of economic dependence and seven 
overlapping categories of policy-relevant themes.   Persistent poverty 
counties belong to the latter group and are deﬁ ned as such if 20 percent 
or more of their populations were living in poverty over the last 30 years 
(measured by 1970, 1980, 1990, and 2000 decennial censuses). 
Table 3.2
Summary Descriptives; Factor and Predictor Variables: Metro Core, 
Micropolitan / Small Town Core, and Rural Tracts
Rural core
Micro/Small-town core
Metro core
Variable
Mean
Std. 
deviation
Mean
Std. 
deviation
Mean
Std. 
deviation
Region (NE, MW, S, W)
2.59
0.91
2.6314
0.91390
2.5416
1.09064
Segregation by Race (dissimilarity)
0.24
0.15
0.29
0.12
0.44
0.14
Segregation by income (Gini)
0.29
0.17
0.37
0.15
0.57
0.16
Land area of tract in miles
452
2146
50
238
4
22
Roadway connectivity (alpha)
0.11
0.06
0.17
0.07
0.17
0.08
Median value of owner-occupied housing
$72,056
$53,004
$85,896
$50,248
$153,295
$123,395
Percent rural population
95.6%
18.2%
18.3%
20.5%
3.3%
10.8%
Percent Black or African-American population
5.5%
13.8%
10.4%
18.5%
15.6%
25.3%
Percent Hispanic population
4.8%
11.4%
8.6%
16.2%
13.5%
20.1%
Percent linguistically isolated households
5.8%
10.5%
5.7%
7.3%
11.2%
10.4%
Percent of tract poverty population who are 
65+ years old
14.2%
8.4%
12.7%
8.1%
11.8%
12.2%
Percent of tract poverty population who are 
children
31.4%
10.3%
32.2%
10.5%
29.7%
14.6%
Percent vacant housing units
20.2%
15.3%
10.5%
8.4%
6.6%
6.6%
SES index of disadvantage
74.94
13.14
75.7635
6.24350
78.0322
9.80811
Percent persistent poverty county
14.8%
35.5%
9.9%
29.9%
1.7%
13.0%
Valid N (listwise)
N = 4141
N = 6392
N = 40436
Source: USDA, ERS estimates based on 2006 ERS-compiled directory of supermarkets and RAND’s Center for Population 
Health and Health Disparities Data Care.

===== PAGE 54 =====
44
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Discussion of Results
MDA yields two types of output that are particularly useful for this 
investigation.  The ﬁ rst is the structure coefﬁ cients, which are useful for 
determining the characteristics that contribute the most to group separation 
(i.e., low-, medium-, and high-access groups).  The second is the set of 
standardized discriminant coefﬁ cients (similar to beta coefﬁ cients in 
regression analysis), which are useful for identifying  the characteristics that 
best predict group membership and can thereby be thought of as indicators of 
associated risk.  That output for all 12 discriminant analyses, and, therefore, 
the three geographies (metro core, micropolitan/small-town core, and rural 
core), are summarized in two typology tables.    
Table 3.3 provides information on the characteristics of supermarket 
accessibility walking proximity and variety, while table 3.4 provides 
similar information for driving proximity and variety.  Both tables 
give corresponding structure coefﬁ cients (access group separation) and 
standardized discriminant coefﬁ cients (access group predictors) with the top 
three most inﬂ uential (on the basis of absolute value) highlighted.  Those 
values can be interpreted following an example for rural core neighborhoods 
from table 3.3.   
Considering walking proximity, roadway connectivity has the strongest 
correlation with the grouping variable (.797), followed by percent of vacant 
housing units (-.356) and percent rural population (-.289).  This means that 
the extent and complexity of the road system contributes most to groupings 
of low-, medium-, and high-access.  Its relative contribution can be 
understood by taking the square of the coefﬁ cient (.635), which indicates that 
63.5 percent of the variance in the composite grouping variable is explained 
by the roadway connectivity variable.  In other words, roadway connectivity 
is the characteristic that best discriminates among groups of neighborhoods 
categorized as having low-, medium-, or high-access to the nearest 
supermarket given walking distance.  It also happens to be the strongest 
predictor of group membership (.913).  
The second and third most powerful predictors for rural core neighborhoods 
were found to be the index of disadvantage (-.311) and the percent of the 
tract poverty population who are 65 years of age or older (.252).  This ﬁ nding 
implies, for example, that limited access is associated with a combination of 
indicators of socioeconomic disadvantage.  This reinforces the need to give 
greater consideration to the notion of deprivation ampliﬁ cation in access 
and related health inequalities research.  Further, the relevance of the elderly 
poverty population highlights that some people may face multiple barriers 
to access.  Thus, continued efforts to improve measurement and advance 
multivariate techniques are needed.    
The discriminant analysis results presented in tables 3.3 and 3.4 offer 
evidence in support of the hypothesis that segregation by race and income are 
associated with limited access. Segregation by race and income inequality 
are the dominant predictors among all neighborhood and household context 
variables that predict low-, medium-, and high-access levels.  This was 
particularly true for access based on driving distances in rural core and 
micro/small-town core neighborhoods.  However, some variability in 

===== PAGE 55 =====
45
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Table 3.3
Group Separation and Predictor Variables for Low-, Medium-, and High-Access to Supermarkets: 
Walking Proximity and Variety for Metro Core, Micropolitan / Small Town Core, and Rural Neighborhoods
Walking proximity
Walking variety
Access group separation
Rural 
core
Micro/Small- 
town core
Metro 
core
Rural core
Micro/Small- 
town core
Metro 
core
Region (NE, MW, S, W)
-0.125
0.114
0.115
0.218
0.062
-0.035
Segregation by race (dissimilarity)
0.072
-0.002
0.232
-0.296
-0.110
0.294
Segregation by income (Gini)
0.061
0.006
0.245
-0.323
-0.137
0.303
Land area of tract in miles
-0.181
0.208
-0.266
0.091
0.207
-0.126
Roadway connectivity (alpha)
0.797
-0.740
0.582
0.019
-0.717
0.465
Median value of owner-occupied housing
-0.227
0.189
0.035
0.204
-0.024
0.204
Percent rural population
-0.289
0.901
-0.677
0.878
0.833
-0.253
Percent Black or African-American population
-0.065
0.046
0.130
0.066
0.045
0.108
Percent Hispanic population
0.093
-0.079
0.379
0.068
-0.155
0.506
Percent linguistically isolated households
-0.118
-0.020
0.489
0.089
-0.188
0.778
Percent of tract poverty population who are 
  65+ years old
0.201
-0.027
-0.062
0.258
0.091
-0.091
Percent of tract poverty population 
  who are children
-0.129
0.039
-0.038
0.456
0.188
-0.026
Percent vacant housing units
-0.356
0.184
-0.027
0.207
0.135
-0.046
SES index of disadvantage
-0.234
0.159
-0.304
0.834
0.318
-0.327
Persistent poverty county
-0.120
0.047
-0.070
0.071
0.022
-0.055
Walking proximity
Walking variety
Access group predication
Rural 
core
Micro/Small- 
town core
Metro 
core
Rural core
Micro/Small- 
town core
Metro 
core
Region (NE, MW, S, W)
-0.026
0.046
0.211
0.340
0.030
-0.050
Segregation by face (dissimilarity)
0.197
-0.604
0.322
0.167
0.532
0.554
Segregation by income (Gini)
-0.168
0.696
-0.228
-0.291
-0.600
-0.463
Land area of tract in miles
-0.251
0.046
-0.070
-0.112
0.002
-0.024
Roadway connectivity (alpha)
0.913
-0.387
0.478
-0.098
-0.512
0.388
Median value of owner-occupied housing
0.105
-0.046
0.096
-0.104
-0.382
0.353
Percent rural population
-0.061
0.728
-0.501
0.387
0.479
0.014
Percent Black or African-American population
-0.075
0.088
0.067
0.080
0.171
0.175
Percent Hispanic population
0.050
0.051
0.117
0.025
0.120
0.258
Percent linguistically isolated households
-0.190
-0.004
0.390
0.139
-0.102
0.605
Percent of tract poverty population who 
  are 65+ years old
0.252
-0.097
-0.031
0.044
0.022
-0.089
Percent of tract poverty population 
  who are children
0.014
-0.013
-0.172
0.069
0.155
-0.173
Percent vacant housing units
-0.054
0.121
-0.113
0.117
0.127
-0.108
SES index of disadvantage
-0.511
0.153
-0.171
0.582
0.451
-0.241
Persistent poverty county
-0.052
-0.045
-0.150
0.044
-0.071
-0.141
Source: ERS estimates based on 2006 ERS-compiled directory of supermarkets and RAND’s Center for Population Health 
and Health Disparities Data Care.

===== PAGE 56 =====
46
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Table 3.4
Group Separation and Predictor Variables for Low-, Medium-, and High-Access to Supermarkets: 
Driving Proximity and Variety for Metro Core, Micropolitan / Small Town Core, and Rural Neighborhoods
Driving proximity
Driving variety
Access group separation
Rural 
core
Micro/Small- 
town core
Metro 
core
Rural core
Micro/Small- 
town core
Metro 
core
Region (NE, MW, S, W)
0.263
0.130
n/a
0.256
0.255
0.075
Segregation by race (dissimilarity)
-0.027
0.026
n/a
-0.125
-0.271
-0.013
Segregation by income (Gini)
-0.085
0.033
n/a
-0.190
-0.358
-0.008
Land area of tract in miles
0.725
0.900
n/a
0.640
0.584
0.693
Roadway connectivity (alpha)
0.334
-0.063
n/a
0.374
0.202
-0.154
Median value of owner-occupied housing
-0.313
-0.033
n/a
-0.266
-0.211
0.113
Percent rural population
-0.005
0.105
n/a
0.099
0.071
0.483
Percent Black or African-American population
-0.173
-0.041
n/a
-0.178
-0.134
-0.060
Percent Hispanic population
0.191
0.055
n/a
0.147
0.307
-0.086
Percent linguistically isolated households
0.323
0.265
n/a
0.194
0.178
0.182
Percent of tract poverty population 
  who are 65+ years old
-0.056
-0.025
n/a
0.035
0.081
0.122
Percent of tract poverty population 
  who are children
0.003
0.073
n/a
0.069
0.137
-0.080
Percent vacant housing units
0.182
0.133
n/a
0.179
0.257
0.413
SES index of disadvantage
-0.077
-0.187
n/a
0.036
-0.092
0.040
Persistent poverty county
0.072
0.052
n/a
0.018
0.106
0.350
Driving proximity
Driving variety
Access group prediction
Rural 
core
Micro/Small- 
town core
Metro 
core
Rural core
Micro/Small- 
town core
Metro 
core
Region (NE, MW, S, W)
0.222
0.045
n/a
0.351
0.198
0.208
Segregation by race (dissimilarity)
1.251
-0.870
n/a
1.742
2.558
-0.362
Segregation by income (Gini)
-1.316
0.958
n/a
-1.921
-2.893
0.462
land area of tract in miles
0.591
0.953
n/a
0.514
0.529
0.575
Roadway connectivity (alpha)
0.356
-0.007
n/a
0.479
0.242
-0.048
Median value of owner-occupied housing
-0.373
0.045
n/a
-0.374
-0.258
0.050
Percent rural population
-0.032
-0.088
n/a
0.095
0.017
0.309
Percent Black or African-American population
-0.158
-0.271
n/a
-0.232
-0.107
-0.114
Percent Hispanic population
-0.035
-0.340
n/a
-0.075
0.166
-0.393
Percent linguistically isolated households
0.350
0.237
n/a
0.243
0.156
0.455
Percent of tract poverty population who are 
65+ years old
-0.052
0.111
n/a
0.058
0.187
0.088
Percent of tract poverty population who are 
children
-0.169
0.101
n/a
-0.037
0.071
0.020
Percent vacant housing units
0.302
0.032
n/a
0.401
0.283
0.429
SES index of disadvantage
-0.016
-0.385
n/a
-0.145
0.017
-0.034
Persistent poverty county
0.104
0.016
n/a
0.046
0.043
0.327
Source: ERS estimates based on 2006 ERS-compiled directory of supermarkets and RAND’s Center for Population Health 
and Health Disparities Data Care.

===== PAGE 57 =====
47
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
predictors was found; for example, in rural core areas segregation was not 
among the top predictors of walking accessibility.  This ﬁ nding lends some 
support to the need for situation-speciﬁ c research and policy.    
Summary 
The ﬁ ndings of this study indicate that low-access to supermarkets is 
most heavily inﬂ uenced by characteristics of neighborhood and household 
socioeconomic environments, such as the extent of income inequality, racial 
segregation, transportation infrastructure, housing vacancies, household 
deprivation, and rurality.  This lends support to the notion that there is 
indeed a socioeconomic “contextual effect” that should be considered when 
designing food access policy.  In that vein, there is growing evidence that 
documents the success of non-health interventions that have had a positive 
impact on health (e.g., improvements to road networks and investments in 
public transportation options), particularly for those living in deprived areas 
(e.g., Cassady and Mohan, 2004; Wrigley et al., 2003). 
References
Apparicio, P., M.S. Cloutier, and Shearmur, R. (2007).  “The Case of 
Montreal’s Missing Food Deserts: Evaluation of Accessibility of Food 
Supermarkets,” Int J Health Geogr, February 12, 6:4.
Bostock, L. (2001). “Pathways of Disadvantage? Walking as a Mode of 
Transport Among Low-Income Mothers,” Health Soc Care Community, 
January, 9(1): 11-8.
Burns, C.M., and A.D. Inglis (2007).  “Measuring Food Access in 
Melbourne: Access to Healthy and Fast Foods by Car, Bus, and Food in an 
Urban Municipality in Melbourne,” Health Place, December, 13(4): 877-85.
Cassady, D., and V. Mohan (2004). “Doing Well by Doing Good? A 
Supermarket Shuttle Feasibility Study,” J Nutr Educ Behav, 36(2): 67-70.
Cummins, S., and S. Macintyre (2006). “Food Environments and Obesity—
Neighborhood or Nation? Int J Epidemiol, February, 35(1): 100-4.
Diez Roux, A.V., S.S. Merkin, D. Arnett et al. (2001). “Neighborhood of 
Residence and Incidence of Coronary Heart Disease,” N Engl J Med,  345(2): 
99-106.
Ford, P.B., and D.A. Dzewaltowski (2008). “Disparities in Obesity 
Prevalence Due to Variation in the Retail Food Environment: Three Testable 
Hypotheses, Nutr Rev, April, 66(4): 216-28.
Franco, M., A.V. Diez Roux, T.A. Glass, B. Caballero, and F.L. Brancati 
(2008).  “Neighborhood Characteristics and Availability of Healthy Foods in 
Baltimore,” Amer J Prev Med, December 35(6): 561-7.
Galvez, M.P., K. Morland, C. Raines, J. Kobil, J. Siskind, J. Godbold, and 
B. Brenner (2008).  “Race and Foodstore Availability in an Inner-City 
Neighborhood,” Public Health Nutr, June, 11(6): 624-31.

===== PAGE 58 =====
48
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Gittelsohn, J., and S. Sharma (2009).  “Physical, Consumer, and Social 
Aspects of Measuring the Food Environment Among Diverse Low-Income 
Populations,” Am J Prev Med, April, 36(4 Suppl): S161-5.
Hemphill, E., K. Raine, J.C. Spence, K.E. Smoyer-Tomic (2008).  “Exploring 
Obesogenic Food Environments in Edmonton, Canada: The Association 
Between Socioeconomic Factors and Fast-Food Outlet Access.” American 
Journal of Health Promotion, July-August, 22(6): 426-432.
Huberty, C.J., and L.L. Lowman (1997). “Discriminant Analysis via 
Statistical Packages,” Educational and Psychological Measurement, 57: 
759-784.
Laraia, B.A., P. Kannan, B. Frizzelle, and S. Walsh (2007).  “Inﬂ uence of 
Supermarket Distance on Diet and Weight Status Among Pregnant Women,” 
Presentation, 135th APHA Annual Meeting and Exposition, November 30.
Larson, N.I., M.T. Story, and M.C. Nelson (2009).  “Neighborhood 
Environments: Disparities in Access to Healthy Foods in the U.S.,” Am J 
Prev Med, January, 36(1): 74-81.
Macintyre, S., L. MacDonald, and A. Ellaway (2008).  “Do Poorer People 
Have Poorer Access to Local Resources and Facilities? The Distribution of 
Local Resources by Area Deprivation in Glasgow, Scotland,” Soc Sci Med, 
September, 67(6): 900-14.
Morland, K, S. Wing, A. Diez Roux, and C. Poole (2002).  “Neighborhood 
Characteristics Associated With the Location of Food Stores and Food 
Service Places,” Am J Prev Med, January, 22(1): 23-9.
Moore, L.V., and A.V. Diez Roux (2006).  “Associations of Neighborhood 
Characteristics With the Location and Type of Food Stores,” Am J Public 
Health, February, 96(2): 325-31. 
Moore, L.V., A.V. Diez Roux, and S. Brines (2008).  “Comparing 
Perception-Based and Geographic Information System (GIS)-Based 
Characterizations of the Local Food Environment,” J Urban Health, March, 
85(2): 206-16.
Odoms-Young, A.M., S. Zenk, and M. Mason (2009).  Measuring Food 
Availability and Access in African-American Communities: Implications for 
Intervention and Policy,” Am J Prev Med, April, 36(4 Suppl): S145-50.
Pearce, J., R. Hiscock, T. Blakely, and K. Witten (2009).  “A National Study 
of the Association Between Neighbhourhood Access to Fast-Food Outlets 
and the Diet and Weight of Local Residents,” Health Place, March, 15(1): 
193-7.
Sharkey, J.R. (20090).  “Measuring Potential Access to Food Stores and 
Food Service Places in Rural Areas in the U.S.,” Am J Prev Med, April, 36(4 
Suppl): S151-5.

===== PAGE 59 =====
49
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Wrigley, N., D.L. Warm, and B.M. Margetts (2003).  “Deprivation, Diet 
and Food Retail Access: Findings From the Leeds ‘Food Deserts’ Study,” 
Environment and Planning A., 35: 151-88.

===== PAGE 60 =====

===== PAGE 61 =====
51
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
CHAPTER 4
Food Access and Its Relationship to Diet 
and Health Outcomes
Many factors contribute to an individual’s overall diet, body weight, and the 
risk of developing diet-related diseases, such as diabetes or cardiovascular 
disease.  Individual factors can explain some but not all of the differences 
in the rates in which different population groups experience these problems.  
Focus on food access has increased as researchers try to better understand 
the factors besides individual behaviors that may lead to differences in diet 
and health outcomes (Diez-Roux, 2009).  Interest in the relationship of food 
access to diet and health is also rooted in a substantial body of literature 
that shows disparities in many health outcomes across race, ethnicity, and 
socioeconomic status (Institute of Medicine, 2003; National Research 
Council, 2004).  It is hypothesized that differences in food access across 
race, ethnicity, and socioeconomic status may contribute to or reinforce these 
health disparities (Diez-Roux, 2009).  
This chapter ﬁ rst considers different conceptual and methodological 
approaches to understanding how food access can affect diet and diet-related 
outcomes.  It then brieﬂ y reviews what is known about the relationship 
between food access and diet, obesity, and diet-related problems.  Evidence 
regarding what is known about effects of diet on health outcomes like 
obesity, diabetes, and other diet-related diseases is also considered.  The 
chapter concludes with a discussion of research and data needs to advance 
knowledge of the effects of food access on diet and health.    
Conceptual Framework
In a simple conceptual model, it is hypothesized that individual (and family) 
characteristics as well as characteristics of the physical environment impact 
dietary decisions.  Individual characteristics include demographics (age, sex, 
race/ethnicity), socioeconomic status (income, education, and employment), 
family characteristics (family size and composition, presence of children), 
and preferences for food and other goods.  The physical environment 
includes the food environment (accessibility to stores and restaurants) along 
with characteristics of the built environment, such as parks, sidewalks, 
availability of public transportation, air pollution, and noise.  It is also likely 
that the social environment faced by individuals and families (e.g., cultural 
and social norms, social support, and safety and violence) affects diet.  Diet 
is a major determinant of BMI and obesity status, and it is also a factor in 
risks of such diseases as diabetes and cardiovascular disease.  Some of the 
same individual factors and physical and social environments affect BMI and 
diet-related diseases as well.   
The conceptualized model is an effective starting point, but it is 
oversimpliﬁ ed.  Individuals are certainly impacted by their larger physical 
and social environments, but physical and social environments are also 
impacted by individuals.  Individuals have some choice over which physical 
and social environments with which to interact.  Diet-related outcomes and 
health conditions are affected by other factors besides diet, including genetic 

===== PAGE 62 =====
52
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
makeup, exercise habits, and working conditions.  The directions of these 
relationships are not necessarily one-way.  Obese individuals may have 
difﬁ culty exercising or engaging in an active lifestyle.  Obesity has also 
been tied to lower wages among women, which could affect their family’s 
economic situation (Averett and Korenman, 1996; Cawley, 2004).  And 
health conditions themselves can impact diet; for example, those with high 
blood pressure or diabetes may need to adopt special diets.
These complicated relationships highlight the limitations of the cross-
sectional studies that have dominated the research in this area.  Such studies 
are important because they illuminate how food access and the larger 
environment potentially impact diet and diet-related problems.  But the 
results can not be interpreted causally.  
Literature Review
In reviewing the literature on food access and diet and health outcomes, 
one must ﬁ rst distinguish between studies that attempt to examine causal 
links between food access and health outcomes and those that only consider 
cross-sectional correlations.  Also, most of the studies examine the effects 
of food access on proximal outcomes, such as food shopping behavior and 
food consumption, often focusing on particular foods such as fruits and 
vegetables, whole grains, or low-fat milk.  Other studies, however, focus 
on outcomes such as high BMI, obesity, and heart disease, which are not 
as proximate outcomes.  The causes of these more distant outcomes are 
much broader than just food access, and, thus, other factors besides lack of 
access to some foods may help account for the rate of incidence of these 
health outcomes.  To get a sense of this, the analysis includes a review 
of literature on the degree to which speciﬁ c foods that may be lacking in 
some neighborhoods (such as fresh fruits and vegetables, low fat milk, 
and whole grains) are related to such health outcomes as obesity, diabetes, 
cardiovascular disease, and cancer.  
Food access and dietary intake
The majority of studies that have examined the relationship between store 
access and dietary intake ﬁ nd that better access to a supermarket or large 
grocery store is associated with healthier food intakes (Larson et al., 2009).  
The relationship between the availability of restaurants (both fast food and 
full-service) and dietary intake has also been studied.  In general, these 
studies have found that greater availability of fast food restaurants and lower 
prices of fast food restaurant items are related to poorer diet.  Access to full-
service restaurants shows either no relationship or a positive relationship with 
healthy dietary intake.  
Only a few studies have used longitudinal data to measure how changes 
in access affect changes in diet.  The few that exist focus on changes in 
shopping behavior and changes in dietary intake, not more distant outcomes 
such as obesity or other diet-related diseases.  Two studies have examined 
the impact of the opening of a large supermarket in underserved areas in 
Leeds and Glasgow, UK (Wrigley et al., 2003; Cummins et al., 2005).  The 
Leeds study used a pre-post intervention design, with survey interviews 
of participants about their shopping and food intake 5 months before and 

===== PAGE 63 =====
53
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
7 months after a Tesco supermarket opened in the area.  The Glasgow 
study used a pre-post study design to assess change in shopping and food 
intake behaviors surrounding a new store opening, but it also considered 
a comparison area that had similar neighborhood characteristics but did 
not have a new store open in the area. The comparison area was added to 
determine if any changes in shopping or diet could be due to secular changes 
in diet that were not due to a new store opening.  Results of both studies 
showed that shopping behavior was affected by the openings of new stores—
that is, a signiﬁ cant number of sampled individuals from the neighborhood 
switched their shopping to the new store.  Both studies also show that 
average fruit and vegetable intake increased among surveyed individuals, but 
that the average increase was small (just over one-third of a serving).  The 
average increase in fruit and vegetable intake among those who switched 
their main food shopping to the new store was larger, but still under one-half 
of a full serving size.  The increase in fruit and vegetable intake in Leeds was 
statistically signiﬁ cant, but the increase in Glasgow was not.  The Glasgow 
study, which used a control comparison area, shows that some of the increase 
in fruit and vegetable intake among sampled individuals could be due to 
overall increased consumption of these foods in both the control and study 
area—not due to the better accessibility to the store in the study area.  Also 
noteworthy is that in both studies, respondents who switched to the new store 
reported better self-reported psychological health. 
In contrast to opening new supermarkets, some areas have implemented 
programs to improve what is offered in small corner or convenience stores in 
underserved areas.  Rather than build a whole new store, the idea is to work 
within the existing infrastructure to offer more healthy options and fewer less 
healthy options.  Some of these interventions have measured the impact on 
shopping, sales, and food intake.  Overall, results from these studies show 
that stocking and promoting healthier food items increases sales of the items.  
Some studies have also shown increases in healthy food consumption (Ayala 
et al., 2009; Gittelsohn, 2009).  One intervention stocked prepared packs 
of fruits and vegetables (washed, cut, and bagged) at two tiendas (small 
stores) that served primarily Latino customers in North Carolina.  Fruit and 
vegetable intake for customers at these two tiendas was compared with the 
fruit and vegetable intake of customers at two control group tiendas that did 
not offer the fruit and vegetable packs (Ayala et al., 2009).  The study found 
that customers who shopped at stores where the packs were sold increased 
fruit and vegetable intake by one full serving. Customers who shopped in the 
two control tiendas exhibited no change in consumption.  
These small store interventions show some promise, however, much of the 
research on the effectiveness of these interventions is formative.  The studies 
are usually on very small and localized samples and often have very short 
followup periods from which changes can be observed.  Further, there has 
also been little evaluative research to determine the cost effectiveness and 
sustainability of the changes in the stores and in consumers’ diets.  
Food access and obesity
Many studies have examined the link between store and restaurant access and 
BMI and obesity (see Larson et al., 2009, for a recent summary).  In general, 
these studies ﬁ nd that better access to a supermarket is associated with 

===== PAGE 64 =====
54
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
reduced risk of obesity and better access to convenience stores is associated 
with increased risk of obesity.  Results with respect to restaurants are mixed.  
Some show that fast food availability is associated with increased risk of 
obesity for adults and children, but others ﬁ nd no association (Larson et al., 
2009).  
Currie et al. (2009) examine how school-level obesity rates among ninth 
graders in California are related to the distance between the school and fast 
food and full-service restaurants.  The study also examines weight gain 
during pregnancy for women in Michigan, New Jersey, and Texas using 
Vital Statistics data and measuring distance from each woman’s home to fast 
food and full-service restaurants.  Results vary across the two samples.  They 
ﬁ nd very localized effects in the sample of ninth graders in schools—the 
rate of obesity in the school increases 5.2 percent for schools located within 
0.10 of a mile of a fast food restaurant (relative to schools that are within 
0.25 of a mile).  There is no relationship between the school obesity rate and 
distances of a quarter or half mile from a fast food restaurant and no effect 
of full-service food restaurant availability.  For the sample of mothers, the 
studies ﬁ nd that living within half a mile of a fast food restaurant increases 
the probability of gaining more than 20 kilograms during pregnancy by 2.5 
percent.  The authors interpret the smaller effects on women as evidence that 
they are less constrained by travel than the ninth graders.  
Another study examined the relationship between proximity to fast food 
restaurants and supermarkets to BMI for a sample of individuals from Marion 
County, Indiana (Indianapolis) (Chen et al., 2009).  Unlike most previous 
studies, this study attempted to control for the fact that an individual’s choice 
of where to live may be affected by the availability of different foodstores 
and restaurants.30  Results of this study show that proximity to fast food 
restaurants has a small positive impact on BMI (Chen et al., 2009).  In 
contrast, proximity to a grocery store has a small negative impact on BMI.  
The sizes of the total effects were less than half of a BMI point but were 
larger for people who lived very close to a store or restaurant.  
Another study found that neighborhood environment could be an important 
determinant of BMI and obesity (Katz et al., 2007).  The Moving-to-
Opportunity demonstration project from the U.S. Department of Housing and 
Urban Development (HUD) used a random assignment methodology to study 
the effects of different public housing policies on families.  Families living 
in high poverty public housing projects in ﬁ ve U.S. cities were randomly 
assigned to one of three groups: 1) an experimental group that received 
mobility counseling and a Section 8 public housing voucher that could only 
be used in census tracts with low poverty rates; 2) another experimental 
group that received a Section 8 voucher that could be used in the traditional 
way, without any geographic restriction; and 3) a control group that received 
no new assistance.  Results showed that adults in the treatment groups had 
lower probabilities of obesity relative to the control group (Katz et al., 
2007).  While this study indicates there may be some neighborhood effects 
on obesity, it does not directly show an effect of food access on obesity.  The 
reduction in obesity could have been due to other neighborhood or personal 
effects that were correlated with the move to a better neighborhood (e.g., 
better access to parks or less psychological distress).  
 
30The study also accounts for spatial 
dependence across administrative units. 

===== PAGE 65 =====
55
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
The Relationship Between Consumption of Speciﬁ c 
Foods, Obesity, and Diet-Related Diseases
Part of the goal of improving access to healthy and affordable food is 
to reduce obesity and diet-related diseases among populations that are 
adversely affected by these health conditions.  With respect to obesity, it 
may be counterintuitive to think that a lack of access to any food is related 
to obesity—clearly the problem is too much food.  The hypothesized causal 
pathway between lack of access and body weight is that some populations 
cannot get healthy food options and thus rely on energy-dense options that 
may cause weight gain.  If healthier food is as available and as inexpensive 
as energy-dense food, it is hypothesized that consumers will substitute 
away from energy-dense foods to healthier foods and reduce the risk of 
obesity.  As noted earlier, there is scant causal evidence to either support 
or refute this hypothesis.  There are, however, a number of studies that 
explore the relationship between consumption of speciﬁ c foods (fruits and 
vegetables, whole grains, low-fat milk, and beverages) and obesity and diet-
related diseases.  Since these speciﬁ c foods are often the foods lacking in 
underserved areas (with the exception of beverages), this research is relevant 
to the question of how lack of access affects obesity and diet-related diseases. 
Consumption of speciﬁ c foods and their effects on obesity 
It is hypothesized that because of their high ﬁ ber content and, in the case 
of whole grains, their improved glycemic control, fruits, vegetables, and 
whole grains could increase satiety so that consumers who increased their 
intake of these foods would substitute away from other foods that may be 
more energy-dense.  Such a substitution would either stabilize total caloric 
intake or possibly reduce it.  With respect to the fat content of milk, it is 
hypothesized that consumers who choose low-fat milk instead of milks with 
higher fat content would have lower caloric intake and lower BMI.  
There is only weak support for these hypothesized relationships in the 
literature.31  In the case of fruit and vegetable consumption, cross-sectional 
data show that people who eat more fruits and vegetables have lower BMI.  
But cross-sectional data cannot distinguish whether consuming more fruits 
and vegetables causes lower BMI since those who eat more fruits and 
vegetables may be more health conscious, more likely to exercise, and more 
likely to have lower BMI relative to those who do not.  Intervention and 
longitudinal studies have shown that increased fruit and vegetable intake may 
lead to small decreases in BMI, but some studies even show that increases in 
body weight can occur with increased consumption of fruits and vegetables 
because total caloric intake increased.  
The case of whole grains is similar to that of fruits and vegetables.  Relative 
to reﬁ ned grains, greater intake of whole grains provides little or no beneﬁ t 
for weight management.  
Cross-sectional evidence with respect to consumption of low-fat versus 
whole milk shows differences in preference across race and ethnicity that 
do not seem to be explained by availability or price.  Hispanic and Black 
consumers are more likely to drink whole milk and White consumers are 
more likely to drink low-fat milk.  The evidence also suggests that low-fat 
 
31This section draws heavily on a 
review of the literature presented by 
Dr. Richard Mattes, Purdue University, 
at the IOM Workshop on the Public 
Health Effects of Food Deserts (Mattes, 
2009).

===== PAGE 66 =====
56
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
milk consumption is not associated with lower BMI.  In fact, among children, 
consumption of low-fat milk was linked to weight gain.  
The relationship between beverage consumption and obesity has also been 
extensively studied.  Calories consumed from beverages as a portion of 
Americans’ total energy intake have almost doubled in the past 40 years, so 
much so that in 2002, 21 percent of total energy intake is from beverages 
(Duffey and Popkin, 2007).  It is hypothesized that beverages provide 
less satiety than solid foods.  As a result, increased calories consumed as 
beverages may not lead to reductions in calories from solid food and in fact 
may be consumed in addition to whatever calories come from solid foods 
leading to increased energy intake and weight gain.  A summary of research 
suggests that beverage consumption is associated with increased energy 
intake, weight gain, and BMI.  But there is less research from longitudinal 
studies or randomized controlled trials to establish the causality of beverage 
consumption and weight gain.   
Obesity is a complex problem with many causes.  Evidence presented here 
suggests that while some studies ﬁ nd a correlation between food accessibility 
and BMI and obesity, the causal pathways are not well understood.  Lack 
of access to speciﬁ c nutritious foods may be less important than relatively 
easy access to all other foods.  “Food swamps” may better explain increases 
in BMI and obesity than “food deserts.”.32  Increasing access to speciﬁ c 
foods like fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and low-fat milk alone may 
not make a dent in the obesity problem.  Many of the stores that carry 
these nutritious foods at low prices also carry all the less healthy foods 
and beverages as well.  Without also changing the dietary behaviors of 
consumers, interventions aimed at increasing access to healthy foods may not 
be successful in addressing obesity.   
Consumption of speciﬁ c foods and their effects
 on diet-related disease 
Not all of the relationships between speciﬁ c healthy foods and diet-related 
diseases like diabetes, cardiovascular disease and cancer are well-understood, 
but some broad conclusions can be drawn..33  First, plant-based foods like 
fruits, vegetables, and nuts and whole grains are linked to reduced risk 
of cardiovascular disease.  Diets high in saturated fat, trans fat, or reﬁ ned 
sugars are linked with higher risk of diabetes and cardiovascular disease.  
Sugar-sweetened beverages increase the risk of obesity, diabetes, and 
cardiovascular disease.  The evidence of how these foods relate to risks of 
cancer are not as clear cut and varies across types of cancers.  For example, 
consumption of nonstarchy vegetables and fruits probably protect against 
cancers of the mouth, pharynx, and larynx and of the esophagus and stomach 
(see IOM, 2009, for a more thorough discussion).
The link between plant-based foods and whole grains to lower risk of CVD 
is relevant to questions about food accessibility.  The lack of these foods in 
consumers’ diets due to lack of access could plausibly contribute to increased 
risk of CVD, especially if other foods high in saturated and trans fat are 
relatively more accessible and inexpensive.34  The link between sugar-
sweetened beverages and increased risk of obesity, diabetes, and CVD may 
be less of a question about food access since these beverages are almost 
 
32Rose et al. (2009) introduced the 
term “food swamp” to characterize 
areas with an abundance of less healthy 
food options in contrast to “food 
deserts” that lack healthy food options.
 
33This section draws heavily from a 
presentation by Dr. Frank Hu, Harvard 
University, at the IOM Workshop on 
the Public Health Effects of Food 
Deserts.  
 
34This is a hypothesis that could be 
empirically tested.  

===== PAGE 67 =====
57
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
omnipresent—in supermarkets, corner stores, vending machines, and many 
other food and nonfood retailers. 
Summary
There is clear evidence that the food environment is associated with the kinds 
of foods that people eat.  But most studies are cross-sectional and cannot 
make causal links.  A few studies have examined food intake before and after 
healthy options for food become available (either within existing stores or 
because new stores open).  These studies show mixed results.  Some show a 
small but positive increase in consumption of fruits and vegetables and other 
nutritious food, while others show no effect.  
There is little evidence that shows that increased consumption of healthy 
foods such as fruits and vegetables, low-fat dairy, or whole grains leads to 
lower BMI or reduced risk of obesity. Stronger evidence suggests that the 
consumption of beverages, especially sweetened beverages, is linked with 
increases in BMI and obesity.  Several studies ﬁ nd that the proximity of fast 
food restaurants and supermarkets are correlated with BMI and obesity, but 
most of these are cross-sectional studies.  One study that attempts to control 
for the correlation between individual’s preferences for foods and their 
choice of residential location shows that the proximity to a large grocery 
store is negatively linked to BMI and the proximity to fast food restaurants 
is positively linked to BMI, but both of these effects are small.  In the case 
of obesity, easy access to all food may be a more important factor than lack 
of access to speciﬁ c relatively nutritious foods.  Increased access to healthy 
foods alone, without decreased consumption of all other foods, will likely 
have little impact on obesity among subpopulations of concern.  
Studies that go beyond correlation and try to map out causal relationships 
between the food environment and diet and health outcomes are rare.  In 
order to disentangle these relationships and to ultimately improve the design 
of interventions that may reduce the impact of access barriers, improvements 
in research are needed.  Better models that relate the food environment to 
diet and health are needed to disentangle causal relationships and deﬁ ne 
tests of which factors may be most important in explaining the relationships 
(e.g., availability or price).  Experimental studies that can isolate the effects 
of changes in the food environment to diet and health outcomes could 
help.  Taking advantage of natural experiments or quasi-experiments where 
naturally occurring comparison groups or areas can be used to uncover causal 
pathways would be useful.  Longitudinal data that can be used to determine 
changes in diet and health over time are also needed to improve what is 
known about the relationships between food environment and dietary health. 
References
Averett, S., and S. Korenman (1996).  “The Economic Reality of the Beauty 
Myth,” Journal of Human Resources, 31(2): 304-330.  
Ayala, G.X., B. Baquero, L. Linnan, B.A. Laraia, and P. Bloom (2009).  
“Working With Tiendas to Promote Healthy Eating,” Presentation at the 
IOM/NRC Workshop on the Public Health Effects of Food Deserts, January 
27, Washington, DC.

===== PAGE 68 =====
58
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Cawley, J. (2004). “The Impact of Obesity on Wages,” Journal of Human 
Resources, 39(2): 451-474.  
Chen, S.E., R.J.G.M. Florax, and S.D. Snyder, (2009).  “Obesity, Fast Food, 
and Grocery Stores: Evidence from Geo-referenced Micro Data,” National 
Poverty Center Working Paper, http://www.npc.umich.edu/news/events/
food-access/index.php 
Cummins S., A. Findlay, M. Petticrew, and L. Sparks (2005). “Healthy 
Cities: The Impact of Food Retail-led Regeneration on Food Access, Choice 
and Retail Structure,” Built Environ 31(4):  288-301.
Currie, J., S. DellaVigna, E. Moretti, and V. Pathania (2009).  “The Effect of 
Fast Food Restaurants on Obesity,” National Bureau of Economic Research 
Working Paper No. 14721, http://www.nber.org/papers/w14721.  
Diaz-Roux, A. (2009).  “The Local Food Environment and Health: Where 
Are We and Where Do We Go Next?” Presentation at the IOM/NRC 
Workshop on the Public Health Effects of Food Deserts, January 26, 
Washington, DC.
Duffey, K.J., and B.M. Popkin (2007).  “Shifts in Patterns and Consumption 
of Beverages Between 1965 and 2002,” Obesity, 15: 2739-2747.  
Gittelsohn, J. (2009).  “Overview of Efforts to Change the Food 
Environment,” Presentation at the IOM/NRC Workshop on the Public Health 
Effects of Food Deserts, January 27, Washington, DC.
Hu, F.B. (2009). “Effects of Selected Dietary Factors on CVD and Cancer, 
“Presentation at the IOM/NRC Workshop on the Public Health Effects of 
Food Deserts, January 26, Washington, DC.
Institute of Medicine (2003).  Unequal Treatment:  Confronting Racial 
and Ethnic Disparities in Healthcare, B.D. Smedley, A.Y. Stith, and A.R. 
Nelson (eds.), Committee on Understanding and Eliminating Racial and 
Ethnic Disparities in Health Care, Board on Health and Sciences Policy, 
Washington, DC:  The National Academies Press.  
Jeffery, R.W., J. Baxter, M.McGuire, and J. Linde (2006).  “Are Fast Food 
Restaurants an Environmental Risk Factor for Obesity?”  International 
Journal of Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity, 3(2): 
Katz, L.F., J.R. Kling, and J.B. Leibman (2007). “Experimental Analysis of 
Neighborhood Effects,” Econometrica 75(1): 83-119.   
Larson, N.I., M.T. Story, and M.C. Nelson (2009). “Neighborhood 
Environments: Disparities in Access to Healthy Foods in the U.S.,” American 
Journal of Preventive Medicine, 36(1): 74-81.e10. 
Mattes, R. (2009).  “Effects of Selected Dietary Factors on Obesity,” 
Presentation at the IOM/NRC Workshop on the Public Health Effects of 
Food Deserts, January 26, Washington, DC.

===== PAGE 69 =====
59
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
National Research Council (2004).  Eliminating Health Disparities:  
Measurement and Data Needs, M. Ver Ploeg and E. Perrin (eds.), Panel 
on DHHS Collection of Race and Ethnicity Data, Committee on National 
Statistics, Division of Behavioral and Social Sciences and Education, 
Washington, DC: The National Academies Press.  
Rose, D., J.N. Bodor, C.M. Swalm, J.C. Rice, T.A. Farley, P.L. Hutchinson 
(2009).  “Deserts in New Orleans?  Illustrations of Urban Food Access and 
Implications for Policy”.  National Poverty Center Working Paper.  http://
www.npc.umich.edu/news/events/food-access/index.php.
Wrigley, N., D. Warm and B.Margetts (2003).  “Deprivation, Diet, and Food-
Retail Access: Findings From the Leeds ‘Food Deserts’ Study,” Environment 
and Planning A 35: 151-188.

===== PAGE 70 =====

===== PAGE 71 =====
61
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
CHAPTER 5
Food Access and Its Relationship 
To Food Choice
Policymakers are concerned about people with limited access to healthy food 
because they believe it may inﬂ uence food shopping and spending behavior, 
the prices of food faced by people in areas with limited access, and the types 
of foods purchased and consumed.  This chapter examines these economic 
consequences of limited access.  Food shopping behaviors for participants 
of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program are summarized.35  The 
chapter also considers food spending behavior for SNAP participants with 
different levels of access to supermarkets, examining the types of foods that 
SNAP participants purchase based on their access to supermarkets.  Finally, 
the chapter analyzes data on the price of selected similar foods across 
different food retail outlet types.     
Food Shopping Behavior for Participants of SNAP
SNAP serves as the foundation of America’s national nutrition safety net 
for low-income families. In November 2008, more than 31 million persons 
participated in the program and received an average beneﬁ t of $115.  Beneﬁ ts 
are targeted to the purchase of food for home use and are redeemed through 
more than 175,000 authorized stores.
Access to a variety of high quality and affordable foods is essential to meet 
the program’s mission of improving food security, reducing hunger, and 
providing access to a healthful diet and nutrition education.  Of particular 
concern are households who live in rural areas or low-income urban 
neighborhoods where access to stores that offer such quality and variety 
at reasonable cost may be limited.  During the mid-1990s, USDA’s Food 
and Nutrition Service implemented a research agenda to address questions 
about food access among SNAP and other low-income households.  While 
these data are from the 1990s, they provide a foundation for exploring store 
access.  At the same time, care should be taken to view these ﬁ ndings in the 
historical context in which they were generated.  Several relevant changes 
have occurred during the last 15 years.  For example, both the number and 
proﬁ le of authorized stores have changed.  At the same time, there has been 
an increase in the percentage of SNAP beneﬁ ts used in superstores and 
supermarkets.  SNAP eligibility rules with respect to vehicle ownership are 
now less restrictive, which may expand store access.
In order to participate in SNAP, stores must apply for authorization and 
demonstrate that they meet established eligibility criteria.  These criteria 
address the nature and extent of food business conducted; the volume of 
SNAP sales that can be reasonably expected; as well as the business integrity 
of the store applicant (7 CFR 278.1 (b)).  The ﬁ rst criterion is operationally 
deﬁ ned in terms of 1) a store’s food sales volume in relation to overall sales 
and/or 2) inventory of staple foods and the variety of products available 
within speciﬁ ed staple food categories.  
 
35On October 1, 2008, the Food 
Stamp Program changed its name to 
the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance 
Program (SNAP).  Because all of the 
research discussed in this section was 
conducted prior to the name change, 
most program references are to the 
Food Stamp Program.

===== PAGE 72 =====
62
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
These broad criteria enable FNS to authorize a wide variety of store types 
and sizes in many locations so that participants have a range of food 
shopping options.  Table 5.1 compares the percentage of authorized retailers 
and beneﬁ ts redeemed by store type in Fiscal Years (FY) 1994 and 2008.
Store types are deﬁ ned in terms of the dollar value of annual gross sales and 
product lines offered.  Supermarkets are deﬁ ned as foodstores that provide a 
full range of foods and have $2 million or more in annual gross sales.  Large 
groceries have annual sales between $500,000 and $2 million, while small 
grocery stores have annual sales of less than $500,000.36  Convenience stores 
provide a more limited range of foods, usually excluding fresh produce.  
Specialty stores primarily sell one or two product lines, such as produce, 
meats, or baked goods.  Examples of other store types include nonproﬁ t food 
buying co-op stores and combination grocery/other stores.  
The largest category of stores in both FY 1994 and FY 2008 is convenience 
stores; they accounted for 27 and 35 percent of all authorized stores, 
respectively.  In contrast, the majority of program beneﬁ ts are spent in 
supermarkets or other large stores37 – 77 percent in FY 1994 and 87 percent 
in FY 2008.  These data exemplify the rise in the use of superstores for 
SNAP participants.  On the other hand, redemptions at medium-sized grocery 
stores have decreased since1994.  
SNAP beneﬁ t redemptions in relation to where participants live
Historically, much of the research on food deserts has focused on geographic 
proximity to food retailers.  While this work offers one perspective on store 
access, another is to examine where low-income families actually shop.  
Mantovani and Welsh (1996) report that food stamp shoppers tended to use 
their beneﬁ ts outside of the ZIP Code in which they live. This pattern was 
 
36The 2008 data include a category 
for medium sized stores.  For this 
classiﬁ cation, stores with sales of 
$1 million to $2 million are large, 
$250,000 to $1 million are medium, 
and less than $250,000 are small.
 
37In FY 1994, this category included 
supermarkets and large grocery stores.  
In FY 2008, the category includes 
supermarkets, superstores, and large 
grocery stores.
Table 5.1
Percentage of Authorized Retailers and SNAP Redemptions by Category FY 1994 Versus FY 2008
Authorized retailers
Beneﬁ ts redeemed
Store type
FY 1994
FY 2008
FY 1994
FY 2008
Percent
Supermarkets 
15
12
77
47
Superstores 
na
8
37
Large grocery stores1
2
2
Medium grocery stores
25
6
11
2
Small grocery stores2
9
2
Convenience stores 
27
35
4
4
Combination stores3
16
17
3
2
Farmers’ markets
<1
<1
<1
<1
All other 
17
9
5
2
Total 
100
98
100
98
1In FY 1994, data for large grocery stores and supermarkets was combined.
2In FY 1994, data for small and medium grocery stores was combined.
3This category includes stores such as independent drug stores, dollar stores, and general stores.
na =not applicable. 
Source:  USDA, FNS calculations based on 1994 and 2008 administrative data on SNAP redemptions.

===== PAGE 73 =====
63
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
more noticeable in rural areas, where recipients shopped in relatively larger 
population centers.  Even in urban areas, however, households traveled 
beyond their neighborhood supermarkets to more afﬂ uent areas and/or to 
other low-income ZIP Codes to access stores offering items of particular 
interest, such as fresh fruits and vegetables or ethnic products.  
FNS also surveyed nationally representative samples of participants, eligible 
nonparticipants, and near-eligible nonparticipants with questions about 
shopping patterns and access to stores in the National Food Stamp Program 
Survey (Ohls et al., 1999).  Like other surveys of this kind, a disproportionate 
number of long-term participants were included, and determinations of 
eligibility could only approximate the criteria applied by the program.  
Ohls et al. (1999) reported that nearly 90 percent of each low-income group 
used supermarkets as their main foodstore.  Even among participants who 
reported that they usually did not shop at supermarkets, all but 2 percent 
reported that they sometimes used such stores.
Among program participants, the average distance to the nearest supermarket 
was 1.8 miles.  In contrast, the average number of miles to the store used 
most often by participants and eligible nonparticipants was 4.9 miles.  A 
similar study that used electronic beneﬁ ts transfer (EBT) redemption data in 
the State of Maryland also found that SNAP participants redeemed beneﬁ ts 
at stores farther than the nearest SNAP food retailer (Cole, 1997). This study 
found that in Maryland, the average distance traveled to redeem SNAP 
beneﬁ ts was 2.7 miles, but the average distance to the nearest store was 0.3 
miles.  These data suggest low-income households typically bypassed nearby 
supermarkets to use stores farther from home.  
Thirty-eight percent of participants and 34 percent of eligible nonparticipants 
reported that they did not shop in their neighborhoods.  About half of each 
group said this was because there was no store nearby.  Average distance 
to the most frequently used store among those reporting no neighborhood 
retailers was higher than the average distances reported by the overall 
participant and eligible nonparticipant samples.  The average reported 
distance to the most frequently used store was 9.2 miles for participants with 
no neighborhood stores, compared to an average of 4.9 miles for the overall 
sample of food stamp households.
EBT transaction patterns
FNS has continuously tracked beneﬁ t redemption by store in the aggregate.  
With the introduction of EBT systems, it became feasible to examine 
shopping patterns at the household level.  Maryland was the ﬁ rst State 
to operate EBT Statewide and provided FNS an opportunity to track the 
frequency, location, dollar value, and timing of household food purchases 
(Cole, 1997).  Supermarkets comprised just 17 percent of authorized food 
stamp stores in Maryland at the time of the study.  However, 44 percent of 
Statewide food stamp purchases occurred in supermarkets, and 72 percent 
of beneﬁ ts were used in supermarkets.  On any given day in the month, the 
supermarket percentage of total daily redemptions throughout the State was 
roughly constant.  The same pattern occurred for other store types.  This 
conﬂ icts with the expectation that recipients make their large purchases in 

===== PAGE 74 =====
64
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
supermarkets early in the month and ﬁ ll in with smaller buys at other store 
types during the rest of the month.
More recently, FNS analyzed a national sample of EBT transaction data that 
was linked to store and household characteristics (Cole, 2005).  Participants 
spent most of their food stamp beneﬁ ts in supermarkets.  Supermarkets 
accounted for 64 percent of all EBT purchases and 83 percent of the dollar 
value of food stamp beneﬁ ts redeemed.  Over 46 percent of food stamp 
households shopped exclusively at supermarkets, while less than 6 percent 
never shopped in supermarkets.  The latter families were concentrated among 
households receiving the minimum monthly beneﬁ t, $10 or less.
Shopping patterns did not vary substantially across community 
characteristics.  The average number and dollar amount of purchases 
among households in counties with persistent poverty mirrored the national 
averages.  The percentage of households with no supermarket purchases 
was almost the same in areas with persistent poverty (6 percent) as in 
areas without (5 percent).  Similarly, the data show little difference across 
urban, suburban, and rural households.  The percent of food stamp beneﬁ ts 
redeemed in supermarkets ranged from 80 percent among rural families to 85 
percent among households in suburban areas.
The aggregated redemption data for FY 2008 show that a majority of beneﬁ ts 
are spent in large stores:  87 percent of food stamp beneﬁ ts were redeemed in 
superstores, supermarkets, or large grocery stores.  Only 4 percent of beneﬁ ts 
were redeemed in convenience stores, and another 4 percent were redeemed 
in small to medium grocery stores.
Spending on Different Food Groups 
and Access to Supermarkets
The analysis now addresses the questions of what foods people buy and 
how access may inﬂ uence purchase behavior.  Using national data from the 
NFSPS, Rose and Richards (2004) examined the effects of limited access 
to supermarkets on the amount of fruit and vegetable purchases.  Access 
to a supermarket was deﬁ ned by three variables—distance to store, travel 
time to store, and car ownership.  The study found that limited access to a 
supermarket was negatively related to the purchase of fruits and vegetables, 
but only the effect on fruits was statistically signiﬁ cant.
This analysis uses the same data used by Rose and Richards (2004) to 
examine the amount of food from different food groups purchased per week 
by SNAP participants.  The study by Rose and Richards (2004) is extended 
in three ways.  First, fruits and vegetables are separated into canned and 
noncanned forms.  Limited access to a supermarket is hypothesized to exert 
greater effects on the purchase of noncanned produce than canned produce 
since many smaller grocery stores and convenience stores sell mostly canned, 
but not necessarily fresh fruits and vegetables.  Additionally, potatoes 
and dried beans are treated as a separate vegetable category.  The analysis 
also examines purchases of milk and other dairy products.  Like fresh 
produce, milk and dairy products are perishable, so that milk purchases are 
hypothesized to be negatively affected by limited access to a supermarket.  

===== PAGE 75 =====
65
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Second, survey respondents were also asked whether they did their major 
food shopping at a supermarket as well as the frequency at which they 
shopped for food.  The analysis combines these two variables to develop 
three mutually exclusive categories of access to a supermarket:  major food 
shopping was not at a supermarket, no matter how frequently shopping was 
done; major food shopping was at a supermarket but shopping was infrequent 
(less than once in 2 weeks); and major food shopping was at a supermarket 
and was conducted at least once every 2 weeks.  The measure of shopping 
frequency is intended to capture difﬁ culty in getting to a store—if stores 
are relatively close and the costs (both time and travel costs) are low, then 
it is expected that respondents will shop more frequently.  But if costs to 
getting to a supermarket are high, we would expect respondents to make less 
frequent trips to the supermarket. 
Third, the extension to the Rose and Richards study accounts for the 
censored nature of food expenditures.  In a given week, some households 
may not make any purchase of the food groups in question.  To accommodate 
this data issue, the analysis employs the Tobit censored regression model, as 
discussed later. 
Data
Data for examining supermarket access on food purchases are drawn from 
the NFSPS, conducted by Mathematica Policy Research, Inc. for USDA’s 
FNS. The NFSPS employed computer-assisted personal interview (CAPI) 
methods to collect data on household food purchases among food stamp 
recipients between June 1996 and January 1997.  Respondents reported their 
7-day food use (some households were asked to provide four-day records), 
which included data on both the quantities and prices of food used as well 
as expenditures on food at home and away from home.  This is the only 
USDA survey in which household food use (quantity and expenditure) data 
were collected since the 1987 88 Nationwide Food Consumption Survey.  
Social, demographic, and economic characteristics of households were also 
collected.  
Data such as the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 
(NHANES) could be used to model food consumption, but the NHANES 
data do not include measures of food retail access.  Further, it is not feasible 
to link NHANES data with geographically identifying data that could be 
used with more direct measures of access to food retailers (e.g. distance to 
supermarkets, number of supermarkets in the area, and the variety of food 
markets in the area).   
In total, 1,109 in-person interviews were completed from the SNAP list 
frame, and 1,069 households provided complete information on quantity and 
expenditure data.  After excluding households with missing information, the 
ﬁ nal sample totals 860 households.
There are more than 2,000 foods recorded in NFSPS, and they are aggregated 
according to the research focus of the project.  Insufﬁ cient intake of foods 
rich in ﬁ ber and calcium (such as fruits, vegetables, and dairy products) is 
a major dietary deﬁ ciency facing Americans, especially the low-income 
subpopulation (Lin, 2005).  The analysis hypothesizes that households with 

===== PAGE 76 =====
66
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
limited access to supermarkets tend to spend proportionally less of their 
food budget on perishable foods, such as fresh fruits, fresh vegetables, 
and dairy products, than households that shop mainly at supermarkets.  
This study focuses on household purchases of ﬁ ve food groups—dairy 
products, noncanned fruits, noncanned vegetables, canned fruits, and canned 
vegetables.
The NFSPS collected data on access to and shopping at supermarkets.  
NFSPS respondents were asked if they did their food shopping at 
supermarkets, whether they had private vehicles or public transportation 
for food shopping, the distance and travel time to the stores in which they 
shopped, and the frequency of food shopping.  Most of these variables are 
highly correlated.  Only 7 percent of the sample households (64 out of 860) 
indicated that they did not shop mainly at supermarkets (table 5.2).  Among 
those who shopped mainly at supermarkets, 27 percent (218 out of 796) 
shopped less than once in 2 weeks.  In this study, three mutually exclusive 
categories are speciﬁ ed to signify limited access to a supermarket: major 
food shopping was not at a supermarket, no matter how frequently shopping 
was done; major food shopping was at a supermarket but shopping was 
infrequent (less than once in 2 weeks); and major food shopping was at a 
supermarket and was conducted at least once every 2 weeks. This three-part 
measure of access is an individual measure of access and not an area-based 
measure of access like those used in the previous chapter.
Tobit censored regression model
On any given week, some food stamp households did not purchase a 
particular food group. Therefore, a cluster of zero consumption values for 
a particular food group is observed in the data—making it necessary to 
estimate a censored regression model.  Any statistical procedure that does 
not account for zero observations produces inconsistent parameter estimates.  
Tobin (1958) was the ﬁ rst to propose a censored normal regression model 
(Tobit model) to deal with censored data in regression, which can be 
expressed as below
(1) 
if
0
0
if
0,
1,2,
, ,
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
q
x
x
x
i
n
′
′
=
β + ε
β + ε >
′
=
β + ε ≤
=
L
where qi denotes the endogenous variable, x is the vector of exogenous 
variables, and 
iε  is the error term.  The Tobit procedure was used to estimate 
6 censored purchase equations.  
Results
Six separate Tobit equations are estimated to examine the relationship 
between limited access to a supermarket on household purchases of fruits, 
vegetables, and milk.  Fruits are disaggregated into canned and non-canned 
forms; vegetables are disaggregated into canned, potatoes and beans, and 
noncanned vegetables.  Supermarket access is represented by a set of 
categorical variables: major food shopping was not at a supermarket, no 

===== PAGE 77 =====
67
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Table 5.2
Descriptive statistics of the NFSPS respondents
Supermarket shopping
Total
Frequent 
shopper
Infrequent 
shopper
Not shop at
Sample
860
578
218
64
Average purchase
Pounds per week
  Noncanned vegetables
3.73
3.93
3.32
3.30
  Canned vegetables
2.06
2.05
2.14
1.79
  Potatoes and beans
2.95
3.05
2.92
2.10
  Noncanned fruits
5.92
6.23
5.38
4.94
  Canned fruits
1.59
1.66
1.51
1.19
  Milk and diary products
12.29
12.71
12.31
8.52
Proportion consuming
Percent
  Noncanned vegetables
85
86
83
78
  Canned vegetables
69
67
73
70
  Potatoes and beans
82
83
81
81
  Noncanned fruits
83
85
80
78
  Canned fruits
42
42
43
36
  Milk and diary products
97
97
98
94
Mean values of explanatory variables:
  Per capita income ($/month)
305
  Meal number (# meals prepared from 
     food purchase)
48
Percent
Four day (sample report only 4-day purchase)
8
Asian (sample)
1
Black (sample)
39
Native American (sample)
1
Hispanic (sample)
13
White (sample)
46
Single-headed (sample with one head)
34
Child (sample with children under 18)
56
Elderly (sample with senior > 60)
27
Less than high school (head without HS diploma)
46
High school (head with HS diploma)
38
College (head attended college)
16
Rural (living in rural area)
15
West 
38
South
20
Midwest
24
Northeast
18
Spring
24
Summer
24
Fall
29
Winter
23
Source: USDA, ERS calculations based on 1996-97 National Food Stamp Program Survey data.

===== PAGE 78 =====
68
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
matter how frequently shopping was done; major food shopping was at a 
supermarket but shopping was infrequent (less than once in 2 weeks); and 
major food shopping was at a supermarket and was conducted at least once 
every 2 weeks (the reference group).  The results are shown in table 5.3.
As expected, households that did not shop mainly at a supermarket tended to 
purchase signiﬁ cantly smaller amounts of noncanned vegetables, noncanned 
fruits, and milk than households that shopped frequently at a supermarket.  
Households that did not shop at a supermarket also purchased less canned 
fruits and vegetables as well as potatoes and beans, but the differences are 
not statistically signiﬁ cant at the 10-percent level.  Compared to households 
that shopped frequently at a supermarket, infrequent supermarket shoppers 
purchased less of the six food categories in question, but the differences are 
not signiﬁ cant.
As indicated earlier, underconsumption of fruits, vegetables, and milk 
is a major dietary deﬁ ciency facing Americans, especially low-income 
Americans.  The results suggest that food stamp recipients who did not shop 
at a supermarket purchased less of these already under-consumed foods than 
recipients who shopped frequently at a supermarket.  
The Tobit results also point to other important determinants of food 
purchases.  The number of meals (number of people and number of 
occasions) prepared from the weekly food purchases, as expected, positively 
affects the purchased amounts of the six food groups.  Household purchases 
of these six food groups appear to vary by race and ethnicity.  Compared 
with Whites, Asian and Hispanic households tend to buy more noncanned 
vegetables and noncanned fruits but less of canned vegetables and potatoes 
and beans.  Black households tend to purchase less milk and potatoes and 
beans than Whites.  Households with children purchase less noncanned 
vegetables but more canned fruits and milk than households without children. 
Households with elderly individuals buy more noncanned vegetables than 
households without elderly members.  Sample members are grouped into 
three education categories—less than high school, high school graduate, and 
attended college.  No differences are found across these education levels.  Per 
capita income (within the low-income sample of SNAP participants) is not 
associated with differences in the purchases of any of the six food categories.
Price Differentials and Store Format
Another important consequence of limited access to foodstores is that 
consumers may face higher prices for food at the retail outlets that are 
available.  As Chapter 5 noted, higher prices in some stores or areas may 
be due to lower volume of sales, higher ﬁ xed costs, or other reasons.  This 
section compares prices of three selected goods—milk, ready-to-eat cereal, 
and bread—which are sold in almost all types of food retail outlets.  There 
is not enough detailed information to compare prices in areas with limited 
access with those with better access.  Instead, price variation is examined 
across store type—grocery, convenient, discount, and other stores.  

===== PAGE 79 =====
69
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Literature review 
Many studies have examined price disparities across income class, store 
format, and accessibility (Andreyeva et al., 2008; Block and Kouba, 2006; 
Broda et al., 2009; Chung and Myers, 1999; Hayes, 2000; Hendrickson et 
al., 2006; Latham and Moffat, 2007; Talukdar, 2008).  A limitation of these 
studies is their use of observed prices in a regional setting rather than actual 
prices paid on a national level.  Kaufman et al. (1997) provides a review of 
literature on food price disparity dating back to the 1960s and identiﬁ es the 
complexities of undertaking such research. 
Table 5.3
Tobit results
Vegetables
Fruits
Non
canned
Canned
Potatoes 
Beans
Non
canned
Canned
Milk
Intercept
0.76
0.38
1.52 **
0.79
-5.95 ***
7.05 ***
Meal number
0.06 ***
0.02 ***
0.04 ***
0.07 ***
0.04 ***
0.13 ***
Four day
0.55
-0.97 **
0.27
-0.38
-0.97
-0.84  
Income per capita
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00  
Asian
3.43 **
-2.91 **
-3.37 ***
6.76 ***
-1.00
-5.50 *
Black
0.25
0.27
-1.07 ***
0.12
-0.60
-5.60 ***
Native American
-0.01
-0.04
-0.60
0.13
-0.17
-3.61  
Hispanics
1.09 *
-1.90 ***
-1.15 **
4.03 ***
0.24
-1.78  
Single-headed
-0.23
0.41
0.34
0.17
-0.20
1.48 **
Child
-1.20 **
0.35
0.14
0.42
1.98 ***
4.33 ***
Elderly
0.98 **
-0.31
-0.36
0.84
-0.57
0.07  
High school
-0.26
0.24
-0.21
0.17
0.52
-0.02  
College
0.68
-0.12
-0.22
1.30
*
0.71
-0.79  
Rural
-0.43
0.04
0.14
0.18
-0.33
-1.25  
West
0.31
1.08 ***
1.09 ***
-0.79
0.91
0.90  
South
0.06
-0.18
-0.94 **
-0.12
0.44
-0.47  
Midwest
-1.00 *
0.16
-0.51
-1.27
0.35
-0.26  
Spring
0.42
-0.46
-1.12 **
0.67
1.20
-1.92 *
Summer
1.07 *
-0.10
-0.33
2.08 ***
0.19
-1.29  
Fall
-0.44
-0.06
-0.18
-0.98
0.29
-1.27  
Did not shop at a  supermarket
-1.32 **
-0.07
-0.28
-1.88
**
-0.47
-2.54 **
Shopped infrequently at a 
  supermarket
-0.60
-0.08
-0.28
-0.86
-0.13
-0.07  
Scale
4.72  
3.13  
3.78  
7.12
 
5.97  
9.59  
Signiﬁ cance levels: ***, **, and * denote 1, 5, and 10 percent, respectively.
Source:  USDA, ERS Tobit model estimations based on 1996-97 National Food Stamp Program Survey 
data. 

===== PAGE 80 =====
70
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Andreyeva et al. (2008) replicated a 1971 study of food availability and 
price in New Haven, Connecticut.  Their ﬁ ndings show improvement in 
availability and price since 1971.  Findings indicate differences across 
store types—grocery stores were approximately 4 percent cheaper than 
convenience stores for a basket of goods.  The study also found that high-
income areas faced higher prices than low-income areas.  
Block and Kuoba (2006) compared prices for a market basket of goods in 
different types of stores in the Austin and Oak Park sections of Chicago.  
Austin is a lower-middle-class African-American community that borders 
Oak Park, an upper-middle-income suburb.  They ﬁ nd mixed results.  
Discount supermarkets showed the lowest prices.  Independent grocery stores 
had higher prices for packaged goods than chain supermarkets, but lower 
prices for fresh items.  
Broda et. al (2009) analyzed actual consumer purchases and found that poor 
households pay less for food items they purchase than households with 
higher incomes—a 10-percent increase in income roughly induces a modest 
0.1-percent increase in prices paid per food item. They also found that poor 
households tend to shop more frequently at discount stores and supercenters. 
Even after controlling for household characteristics and product ﬁ xed effects, 
the study found that poorer households pay a lower price even in stores of the 
same retail chain.
Chung and Myers (1999) conducted a survey in the Twin Cities metropolitan 
area to determine how store type (nonchain/convenience store versus chain/
supermarket) and neighborhood quality (measured by percent of households 
under the poverty level within a zip code) affects price of a food market 
basket. They conclude that store type is more important in driving price 
disparities than the geographic location of a household—the premium for 
shopping at a convenience and/or nonchain store outweighs the premium for 
shopping in a poor neighborhood.  Limitations to their methodology include 
the way missing price values were treated. When price for a selected item is 
missing, the least expensive brand/size product (e.g., an in-store brand in its 
largest package size) was used.  When a selected item was not available in 
the store, the sample mean price was used. Additionally, the use of regional 
data based on “sticker prices” (those listed on the shelf) as opposed to 
actual transaction prices at the national level do not control for promotional 
purchases (e.g., on-sale and coupon use).  
Hayes (2000) analyzed prices in New York City to establish if prices in 
low-income neighborhoods were indeed higher than those in more afﬂ uent 
neighborhoods. The study concludes that the mean price for a market food 
basket is 2 percent higher in more afﬂ uent neighborhoods although the means 
are not signiﬁ cantly different. Even after controlling for the price of on-sale 
items and generic branding, the prices in low-income neighborhoods were 
not signiﬁ cantly different than in more afﬂ uent neighborhoods.  The author 
does acknowledge that it is possible that the quality of food items purchased 
by the poor is below that of the items purchased by the more afﬂ uent.
Hendrickson et al. (2006) studied prices of selected Thrifty Food Plan foods 
in four Minnesota communities with higher than average poverty (two rural 
and two urban).  The study examined prices offered in grocery stores in 

===== PAGE 81 =====
71
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
these communities for the TFP foods and compared their prices with those 
of the TFP Market Basket Price (MBP).  If a food was found in the grocery 
store, the price of the lowest price version of the food (price per pound) was 
recorded.  The study found that in the two urban areas, 6 and 9 out of the 
19 foods studied were more expensive than the TFP MBP.  In the two rural 
areas, 2 and 4 of the 19 foods studied were more expensive than the TFP 
MBP.  Over all of these communities, the prices per pound of fresh produce 
were equal or less expensive than the TFP MBP price.  Although this study 
uses the lowest price per pound product in the store for a selected food, it 
still only uses the available price instead of the actual paid price.  Further, 
the TFP MBP is a national price average so it is not clear if the prices in the 
Minnesota communities studied are different from  the TFP MBP because 
prices in the neighborhoods are different or because the State or region has 
different prices.  
Mantovani et al. (1997) examined information on MBP for each store in a 
national sample of stores authorized to redeem SNAP beneﬁ ts. Market basket 
quality was measured in terms of the availability of acceptable items as 
guided by a USDA publication on buying quality food (1975).  This analysis 
focused on product availability and cost in areas with different concentrations 
of poverty.  In urban areas, market basket costs in supermarkets and large 
grocers were nearly equivalent across levels of poverty.  Prices were less 
at “other” stores located in high-poverty areas than those in lower poverty 
areas. In rural areas, market basket costs were consistently similar in higher 
and lower poverty areas.  
Latham and Moffat (2007) study prices of a market basket of goods 
across store types in low and higher income neighborhoods of Hamilton, 
Ontario, Canada.  They ﬁ nd that prices at supermarkets in low income 
areas were similar to prices at areas that were not low income.  Prices were 
higher, however, at variety stores, which offer fewer groceries but more 
nonprescription drugs, tobacco products, and other products, operating in 
low-income areas.  
Talukdar (2008) investigated prices faced by the poor for both food 
and nonfood items in Buffalo, New York, and surrounding suburban 
neighborhoods. The study found that the inner-city neighborhoods 
experience a weakened competitive market leading to cost-inefﬁ cient 
“corner stores” which have a 6-7 percent premium over regional or national 
chain grocery stores. Even after controlling for economies of scale and 
competitive environments, prices were 2 to 5 percent higher in the poorest 
neighborhoods.
This study extends the literature by analyzing actual consumer purchases at 
a national level, rather than observed “sticker prices” in certain localities.  
Furthermore, the study will focus on particular food items rather than 
representative “food baskets,” enabling the pricing models to control for 
speciﬁ c product attributes such as milk fat and whole grain, as well as for 
market factors such as promotional on-sale prices and coupon use.  The study 
also borrows from a recent analysis conducted in conjunction with ERS, 
which explores actual prices paid by consumers across different income 
levels (Broda et al., 2009).

===== PAGE 82 =====
72
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Table 5.4
Descriptive statistics of variables used in price analysis
Fluid milk
RTE cereal
Bread
Variables
Deﬁ nition
Convenience 
store
All 
other
Convenience 
store
All 
other
Convenience 
store
All 
other
Price
Unit value (expenditure net of any pro-
motions divided by the corresponding 
quantity), cents per ounce
2.47
2.59
16.17
16.71
8.67
9.03
Income 
The ratio of household income over the 
federal poverty level; where income is 
the midpoint of the income class
3.57
3.83
3.59
3.73
3.18
3.73
Market shares (percent of purchase occasions)
Grocery store
Purchase occasion at grocery store
73
67
72
Convenience store
Purchase occasion at convenience or 
drug store
5
2
1
Discount store
Purchase occasion at supercenter or 
club warehouse
17
20
17
Other stores
Purchase occasion at other store
5
10
9
Promotional sale
Purchase made on-sale or with a 
coupon
27
18
69
36
19
23
Spring
Purchase in spring (Jan-Mar)
27
26
27
26
26
25
Summer
Purchase in summer (Apr-Jun)
24
25
23
25
24
25
Fall
Purchase in fall (Jul-Sept)
25
25
28
26
26
25
Winter
Purchase in winter (Oct-Dec)
25
24
22
23
24
24
East
Northeastern census region
28
20
26
18
22
20%
Central
Midwestern census region
33
24
29
26
35
24
West
Western census region
11
20
19
22
13
20
South
Southern census region
29
35
26
35
29
36
Urban
Purchase in urban area
81
77
85
77
78
77
Pint
16 oz. used as midpoint (0 - 24 oz.)
2
1
--
--
--
--
Quart 
32 oz. used as midpoint (25 - 48 oz.)
4
6
--
--
--
--
Half gallon
64 oz. used as midpoint (49 - 96 oz.)
26
33
--
--
--
--
Gallon
128 oz. used as midpoint ( > 97 oz.)
68
60
--
--
--
--
Skim
Less than 0.5g of fat*
18
24
--
--
--
--
Low-fat
Less than 4.7g of fat (includes 0.5%, 
1%, 1.5%, 2%)*
58
54
--
--
--
--
Whole
8g of fat*
24
22
--
--
--
--
Size 
Continuous quantity (1 oz. - 81 oz.)
--
--
15.18
17.58
--
--
Whole-grain
Identiﬁ ed as a whole-grain product
--
--
60
52
13
21
Small size
16 oz. used as midpoint (0 - 18 oz.)
--
--
--
--
25
27
Medium size
20 oz. used as midpoint (19 - 22 oz.)
--
--
--
--
44
33
Large size
24 oz. used as midpoint ( > 22 oz.)
--
--
--
--
31
40
No. observations
55,000
978,414
14,759
660,650
9,873
876,944
1,033,414
675,409
886,817
Source:  USDA, ERS calculations based on 2006 Nielsen Homescan Panel data.

===== PAGE 83 =====
73
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Data
The data source for investigating price differentials by store type is the 2006 
Nielsen Homescan panel data.  The panelists constitute a random sample that 
is representative of the U.S. population and provides purchase information 
of food items for at-home consumption.  Each household is supplied with 
a scanner device that the panelist uses at home to record grocery items 
purchased at all retail outlets.  The household either scans the Uniform 
Product Code (UPC) or a designated code for random-weight purchases for 
each food item.  Each purchase records the date, the quantity purchased, 
expenditures for that quantity, promotional information including whether or 
not the item is on sale, and detailed product characteristics.  
Total enrollment in the Homescan panel for 2006 was over 37,000 
households, but to avoid would-be data problems resulting from incomplete 
reporting, only those households that reported purchases for at least 10 
months were included.  Panelists report total expenditures and the quantity 
of food purchased.  Prices are derived as unit values – the ratio of reported 
expenditures, net of any promotional and sale discounts, to the reported 
quantities for each purchase record.  
Each purchase record is identiﬁ ed by store type (grocery, convenience, 
discount, and others),38 day of purchase, whether the purchase was 
made with a discount, and an array of product attributes.  Each panelist 
also provided data on his or her social, economic, and demographic 
characteristics, including income, household size, and place of residence.
This study examines the prices of the three most popular healthy food items 
purchased by Homescan panelists at convenience stores and also at grocery 
stores—ﬂ uid milk, ready-to-eat cereals (RTE cereals hereafter), and bread.39 
For milk, attributes include fat content (nonfat/skim, low-fat, or whole) 
and container size (pint, quart, half gallon, or gallon,). Buttermilk, soy, and 
ﬂ avored milk are not included in the analysis. For cereals and bread, attribute 
data include container size and whether it is a whole grain bread or cereal. 
Rolls, buns, mufﬁ ns, and other sweetened breads, such as cakes and donuts, 
are excluded from the data set. Although the three aforementioned foods 
examined in this study could be considered loss leader products,40 the model 
controls for in-store promotions and coupon use. Table 5.4 provides a list 
of variables constructed from the data to be used in the empirical estimation 
with descriptive statistics.
Hedonic pricing model
The analysis of price differences at grocery stores and convenience stores 
is carried out using the hedonic model, which is based on Lancaster’s 
(1966) characteristics demand theory that consumers derive utility from 
the characteristics or attributes inherent in a good or service.  The price 
consumers pay for a good is the sum of the values consumers assign to the 
good’s attributes, as shown below.
(2) 
it
s
sit
s
r
rit
r
it
e
PRO
MKT
P
+
+
+
=
∑
∑
=
=
1
1
0
β
α
α
 
38Homescan does not differentiate 
between the sizes of grocery stores 
(i.e., large specialty grocers, such as 
Whole Foods, and large grocers, such 
as Publix, Giant, and Safeway, are all 
considered grocery stores). Discount 
stores include large supercenters such 
as Super Wal-Mart and Super Target 
and warehouse stores.  
 
39These are the most frequently 
purchased goods at convenience stores 
for all consumers, not just low-income 
consumers.  We considered studying 
prices of fruits and vegetables and other 
“healthy” food options across store 
outlet type, but the sample of purchases 
was too small (i.e., not enough of 
these types of goods were purchased 
from convenience stores to study their 
prices). 
 
40Loss leader pricing of products is a 
marketing strategy in which retailers set 
low prices for particular “loss leader” 
products, typically below or at cost, to 
attract customers into the store to buy 
other products.

===== PAGE 84 =====
74
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Table 5.5
Hedonic results
Fluid milk
RTE cereal
Bread
Variable
Coefﬁ cient
Standard
error
Coefﬁ cient
Standard
error
Coefﬁ cient
Standard
error
Constant
2.419***
0.025
22.879***
0.220
6.338***
0.137
Income
0.024***
0.002
0.334***
0.016
0.317***
0.008
Convenience
0.129***
0.031
5.839***
0.775
0.620***
0.200
Discount
-0.202***
0.016
-0.720***
0.114
-0.351***
0.063
Other
-0.188***
0.030
-2.351***
0.150
-1.334***
0.061
On sale
-0.508***
0.016
-3.695***
0.106
-1.669***
0.065
Spring
0.026***
0.005
-0.310***
0.036
-0.314***
0.017
Summer
-0.035***
0.005
-0.035
0.040
-0.262***
0.016
Fall
-0.034***
0.004
-0.128***
0.032
-0.190***
0.016
East
-0.417***
0.044
0.297
0.210
0.640***
0.120
Central
-0.437***
0.027
-0.226
0.171
-0.067
0.121
West
-0.210***
0.035
1.110***
0.168
1.254***
0.193
Urban
0.019***
0.019
0.644***
0.113
0.323***
0.100
Income*conv
-0.008
0.005
-0.289***
0.043
-0.153***
0.045
Pint
4.213***
0.173
--
--
--
--
Quart
1.988***
0.042
--
--
--
--
Half gallon
0.983***
0.026
--
--
--
--
Skim
-0.087***
0.015
--
--
--
--
Low-fat
-0.062***
0.013
--
--
--
--
Pint*conv
0.896***
0.181
--
--
--
--
Quart*conv
0.072
0.069
--
--
--
--
Halfgal*conv
-0.429***
0.056
--
--
--
--
Skim*conv
-0.095**
0.045
--
--
--
--
Low-fat*conv
-0.053**
0.027
--
--
--
--
Whole-grain
--
--
0.068
0.046
1.592***
0.042
Size
--
--
-0.366***
0.009
--
--
Size*conv
--
--
-0.373***
0.045
--
--
Small
--
--
--
--
4.986***
0.091
Medium
--
--
--
--
0.478***
0.100
Small*conv
--
--
--
--
-2.181***
0.387
Medium*conv
--
--
--
--
0.404**
0.199
No. of obs.
1,033,414
675,409
886,817
R-squared
0.511
0.159
0.268
Source:  USDA, ERS hedonic regression model estimations based on 2006 Nielsen Homescan Panel 
data.

===== PAGE 85 =====
75
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
where Pit is the price paid by the i-th household in time t; MKTit represents 
a set of market factors such as income (a measure of neighborhood store 
and product quality), type of store, promotional offering, season, region, 
and urbanicity of purchase; PROit represents product attributes; and eit is 
the error term. Interaction terms between convenience store purchases and 
product attributes, as well as income, allow for the testing of additional price 
differentiations observed in convenience stores.
Results
Milk, RTE cereals, and bread are three of the most frequently purchased 
items at both convenience stores and grocery stores by Homescan panelists.  
The hedonic model is speciﬁ ed in linear functional form so that estimated 
coefﬁ cients represent price premiums or discounts.  The hedonic results 
are summarized in table 5.5.  The R-squared is 51 percent for milk, 16 
percent for RTE cereals, and 27 percent for breads.  These goodness-of-ﬁ t 
measures are quite high for cross-sectional studies, implying that the data 
ﬁ t the model reasonably well.  “Grocery” is treated as the reference store 
in the model so that the estimated coefﬁ cient for “Convenience” measures 
the price difference between the two types of stores.  Speciﬁ cally, a positive 
(negative) coefﬁ cient for “Convenience” store indicates that consumers pay 
a higher (lower) price at a convenience store than at a grocery store. Income 
is included to capture store, product, and neighborhood quality attributes 
unobserved in the data. In particular, a household’s income is expected to be 
associated with the quality of shopping venue and product offering, which, in 
turn, would be reﬂ ected in the price paid.  
Fluid milk 
TThe price of milk is expressed as cents per ﬂ uid ounce (128 ounces in a 
gallon).  The estimated constant term suggests an average price of 2.42 cents 
per ounce (or $3.10 per gallon) for whole milk in a gallon container sold 
in a grocery store in the Southern United States in the winter.  The results 
suggest that the same milk is sold at a price 0.13 cents per ounce higher at 
a convenience store, or about 5 percent above the grocery store price.  As 
expected, consumers pay a lower price at discount stores, such as Wal-Mart, 
at an average of 0.2 cents per ounce below the grocery store price.  The 
estimated coefﬁ cient for “Income” (a measure of store and product quality) 
is signiﬁ cant but small, indicating that the price of milk in a grocery store 
increases only slightly with income. Additional variation in price associated 
with income in a convenience store (measured by the interaction between 
“Income” and “Convenience”) is found to be insigniﬁ cant.
Differences in milk prices between convenience and grocery stores vary by 
container size and fat content, as indicated by some signiﬁ cant coefﬁ cients 
for the interaction terms between convenience store and milk type.  Adding 
the estimated coefﬁ cient for the container size “Pint” (i.e., 4.21 cents) to the 
constant term of 2.42 cents helps determine the average price (cents/oz) of a 
pint of whole milk sold in a grocery store in the Southern United States in the 
winter (6.63 cents/oz or $1.06/pint).  The same pint of milk is sold for 1.03 
cents more (0.13 + 0.90) at convenience stores, or about 16 percent more 
than in a grocery store.  A half gallon of whole milk was priced at 3.40 cents/

===== PAGE 86 =====
76
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
oz (2.42 + 0.98) at grocery stores, but there was actually a price discount (0.3 
cents/oz) for such milk sold at convenience stores.  
More than a quarter (27 percent) of milk purchases at convenience stores 
was associated with a promotion (i.e., sale or coupon use), compared with 
18 percent of all purchases recorded elsewhere (table 5.4).  When milk was 
purchased under a promotion with a discount, the discount averaged about 
20 percent below the regular price.  This price discount of 20 percent is quite 
large, compared with the 5-percent price premium for convenience store milk 
over grocery store milk, suggesting that the use of a coupon or promotional 
shopping habits could effectively lower the price of milk purchased at a 
convenience store or grocery 
RTE cereals
RTE cereals were priced at an average of 22.87 cents/oz in a grocery store 
(in the Southern United States and in the winter), or about $4 per box in its 
average container size reported in table 5.4.  Consumers paid 5.84 cents/oz 
(25 percent) more at convenience stores.  As expected, a lower unit price is 
associated with larger packaging.  The interaction between the packaging 
size and a convenience store purchase modeled by the variable “Size*conv” 
(-0.37) in combination with “Size” (-0.37) indicates that price of cereal 
relative to packaging size falls twice as fast in a convenience store (-0.74) as 
in a grocery store (-0.37), signifying that size has more inﬂ uence on price in 
a convenience store. 
Like milk, RTE cereal in a grocery store increases in price with the afﬂ uence 
of the neighborhood, as measured by household income. However, the 
interaction term between income and convenience store is negative and 
signiﬁ cant (-0.29) and must be interpreted in conjunction with the income 
variable (0.33).  This suggests less price variation in convenience stores 
relative to store and product quality, as measured by income.  
In general, whole-grain cereals command a higher price, although the price 
differential is quite small. A surprisingly large proportion (69 percent) 
of convenience store RTE cereals were purchased under a promotional 
discounted price, compared with the share reported for those purchased 
elsewhere (table 5.4).  The average discount is 3.69 cents/oz, which is 16 
percent of the regular price.  Clearly, purchasing items on sale or using 
a coupon can effectively offset the higher price that consumers face at 
convenience stores.
Bread
Bread in its largest 24-ounce size was priced at an average of 6.34 cents/
oz at grocery stores and about 0.62 cents (about 10 percent) more at 
convenience stores.  When bread was purchased on sale or with a coupon, 
the average price dropped to 4.67 cents/oz (26 percent of the regular price).  
Prices of bread also varied greatly by package size, and unlike whole-grain 
RTE cereals, whole-grain bread commanded a large and signiﬁ cant price 
premium, averaging 1.59 cents/oz (or 25 percent of the price of non-whole-
grain breads).  Like the case of milk, price differentials between convenience 
store bread and grocery store bread varied by package size.  The estimated 

===== PAGE 87 =====
77
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
coefﬁ cients indicate that medium- and large-sized bread (constituting 76 
percent of convenience store purchases) was priced higher in a convenience 
store than in a grocery store. Yet, bread sold in a small package size was 
priced lower in a convenience store. 
As with RTE cereal, the variable “Income” was used as a measure of 
neighborhood store and product quality. The results indicate that the effect 
of income on grocery store prices (0.32) is about twice that of the effect 
on convenience store prices (0.32 – 0.15).  This again points to less price 
variation across neighborhood store and product quality (income) for 
convenience store purchases relative to grocery store purchases. Higher 
household income increases the probability that a household will choose 
to shop at a specialty foodstore, which tend to maintain higher prices on 
average.
Discussion
Grocery stores generally stock a multitude of product offerings that present 
consumers with choices of brand, size, quality, and other product attributes. 
This results in greater price disparity for particular food items. Convenience 
stores have more limited intra-product choices. Therefore, consumers face 
a relatively constricted price range in convenience stores as compared with 
grocery stores. Access to a grocery store allows consumers to choose from a 
wider array of products, thereby allowing consumers to choose items whose 
prices fall within their budgets.
The analysis of price variation for similar goods across different store types 
shows that prices are higher, on average, at convenience stores than they 
are at grocery stores, and this ﬁ nding is conﬁ rmed in the literature (Broda 
et al., 2009).  Relatively easy access to convenience stores and smaller food 
retailers in some neighborhoods may lead to higher prices for food for people 
who live in those neighborhoods.  But this argument assumes that people 
who live in these neighborhoods do not shop at large stores or search for sale 
items.  Broda et al. (2009) use 2005 Nielsen Homescan data to address the 
effects of access to different types of stores on overall shopping expenditures 
and prices paid by lower income consumers. The analysis does not directly 
consider access to stores or shopping patterns but instead focuses on 
differences across household income levels.   
Broda et al. (2009) show that across all income levels, 52-57 percent of all 
food purchases are made at grocery stores.  Spending on food at convenience 
stores is a very small portion of shoppers’ food budgets, even for those at 
the lowest income levels.  Those with the lowest incomes (from $5,000 to 
$11,999) spend 2 to 3 percent of their total food expenditures in convenience 
stores, while the highest income consumers (annual income over $100,000) 
spend only 0.7 percent of their total food expenditures at convenience stores.  
Low-and middle-income households (incomes between $5,000 and $49,999) 
spend 20-22 percent of their food dollars at supercenters, where prices are 
lower.  Households with incomes over $70,000 spend 13-17 percent of their 
food dollars at these types of stores.  Clearly, lower income consumers shop 
at outlets offering lower prices.

===== PAGE 88 =====
78
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Examining prices paid for speciﬁ c goods (through the Universal Product 
Code of the good purchased) across household income level, Broda et al. 
(2009) ﬁ nd that while households with incomes below $8,000 per year may 
pay 0.5 to 1.3 percent more for their groceries than households earning 
slightly more, those earning between $8,000 and $30,000 pay the lowest 
prices for groceries.  Households with the highest incomes, with earnings 
over $100,000, pay the greatest amount for groceries, between 2-3 percent 
higher than poorer households.  These results suggest that the poor do not 
pay higher prices for food. 
One caveat to these results is that the Broda et al. (2009) study does not 
directly address access issues as it is only approximated by household income 
level.  The study does not have information about the costs consumers face 
to get to food retail outlets, which could be greater for those who live in areas 
with limited access.  
Summary
For SNAP to meet its mission, it is essential that participants have access to 
foodstores offering good quality, variety, and reasonable prices without the 
participants encountering undue burden.  As a whole, participants live close 
to an authorized retailer, which is often a supermarket or large grocery store.  
More than 90 percent of participating households spend at least some of their 
beneﬁ ts in a supermarket, and close to 90 percent of all beneﬁ ts are redeemed 
in supermarkets or large grocery stores.  Food stamp recipients reported 
being largely satisﬁ ed with the stores in which they shop most frequently. 
Studies of SNAP participant access and shopping patterns reviewed here 
indicate that most SNAP participants have access to supermarkets and large 
grocery stores.  These ﬁ ndings, however, do not eliminate the possibility that 
access may be challenging for some participants and nonparticipants in some 
places.  
The analysis of food purchases suggests that SNAP participants who did not 
shop mainly at a supermarket purchased less noncanned fruit, noncanned 
vegetables, and milk than SNAP participants who shopped frequently at a 
supermarket.  SNAP participants who did not shop at a supermarket also 
purchased less canned fruits and vegetables than others, but the differences 
are not statistically signiﬁ cant.  Overall, the results suggest that lack of access 
to a supermarket is associated with lower levels of expenditures on some 
foods that are important for healthy diets.
This analysis of food purchasing behavior, like the majority of studies on 
the topic, only shows associations between access and food purchases, not 
whether access differences actually cause differences in food purchasing.  
It is possible that those who do not have access to supermarkets or other 
sources of healthy foods would not buy these foods if their access was better.  
To determine a causal impact, longitudinal data or information that is related 
to access but not to food purchasing behavior would be needed.  
It appears that only two studies have used longitudinal data to try to 
determine differences in purchasing behavior over time as the degree of 
access changed (Wrigley et al., 2003; Cummins et al., 2005). These studies 
were conducted in the UK, and both considered changes in shopping 

===== PAGE 89 =====
79
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
behavior and food intake when a new supermarket was opened in an 
underserved area.41  Results from Wrigley et al. (2003) showed that a sizable 
number of residents in both studies switched their main shopping source to 
the new store, more walked to and from the store than before, and fewer took 
buses, taxis, or someone else’s car due to the change in access.  Cummins et 
al. (2005) also found that when access improved, many shoppers switched 
to a new store, more walked to the new store, and fewer traveled to the store 
using someone else’s car.
This study’s demand analysis does not consider the relative food prices 
of these groups of foods that survey participants face.  Those with limited 
access could face higher prices of noncanned fruits and vegetables, which 
could impact their purchase behavior.  The analysis attempted to incorporate 
prices and estimate a demand system, but the results were not reasonable, 
possibly due to the rather limited size of the sample.   
Another limitation of the analysis of food purchasing behavior is that the 
sample includes only participants of SNAP.  Not all those who are eligible 
for the program choose to apply and receive beneﬁ ts.  Those who do, tend to 
be poorer and have lower incomes than those who do not.  But it is possible 
that some poor people choose not to participate because they do not have 
good access to stores where they can redeem beneﬁ ts or to stores where they 
want to buy foods.  Thus, the analysis could underestimate the differences 
in access on food purchasing behavior by not including those who do not 
participate in SNAP because of access limitations.
Households with limited access to supermarkets may rely more on fast 
food or carryout restaurants to satisfy their needs for foods.  It has been 
documented that foods from fast food restaurants are generally lower in 
nutritional quality (Lin et al., 1999).  Therefore, a greater reliance on fast 
food could adversely affect the diet and health of those who have limited 
access to supermarkets.  Future research should be conducted to study the 
effect of limited access to supermarkets on food purchases at commercial 
foodservice outlets.  
The results for estimating price differentials between grocery stores and 
convenience stores are consistent with a priori expectations that consumers 
pay more for food at a convenience store than at a grocery store. Likewise, 
neighborhood quality, as measured by household income, affects prices 
positively, but to a lesser magnitude for those purchases at a convenience 
store.  An important ﬁ nding, however, is that on-sale purchases and 
coupon use are frequently reported at convenience stores.  The price 
discount afforded by on-sale purchases or coupon use is quite large and 
can compensate for the higher price registered at convenience stores.  
Frugal shopping habits can effectively overcome the price disadvantage at 
convenience stores.  Of course, frugal shopping habits can also be effective 
when shopping at grocery stores.  
Analysis by Broda et al. (2009) is consistent with the idea that frugal 
shopping habits can overcome high prices.  This study ﬁ nds small differences 
in expenditures at different food retailers across income levels.  It also 
ﬁ nds that, in general, the poor do not pay more for food.  The study ﬁ nds 
that households earning between $8,000 and $30,000 per year pay the least 
 
41Findings on food intake changes 
from these studies are summarized in 
Chapter 4. 

===== PAGE 90 =====
80
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
for groceries, while the poorest consumers, those with household incomes 
below $8,000, pay between 0.5 to 1.3 percent more for their groceries than 
households earning slightly more.   
With respect to price analyses, Homescan panelists may under-report some 
items purchased at a convenience store due to on-the-go consumption (e.g., 
fresh produce and ready-to-eat snacks).  Prices reported by Homescan 
panelists are nationally representative, but the results may not apply to 
local areas with speciﬁ c characteristics, such as areas affected by Hurricane 
Katrina. 
References
Andreyeva, T., D.M. Blumenthal, M.B. Schwartz, M.W. Long, and K.D. 
Brownell (2008).  “Availability and Prices of Foods Across Stores and 
Neighborhoods: The Case of New Haven, Connecticut,” Health Affairs, 
September/October, 27(5): 1381-1388.  
Block, D., and J. Kouba (2008).  “A Comparison of the Availability and 
Affordability of a Market Basket in Two Communities in the Chicago Area,” 
Public Health Nutrition, 9(7): 837-845.  
Broda, C.E. Leibtag, and D.E. Weinstein (2009).  “The Role of Prices in 
Measuring the Poor’s Living Standard,” Journal of Economic Perspectives, 
23 (2): Spring, 000-000.
Chung, C., and S.L. Myers (1999). “Do the Poor Pay Moor for Food? An 
Analysis of Grocery Store Availability and Food Price Disparities,” Journal 
of Political Economy, 91 (3): 480-93.
Code of Federal Regulations. Title 7 - Agriculture, Chapter 2:  Subchapter C. 
Part 278.
Cohen, B., J. Ohls, M. Andrews, M. Ponza, L. Moreno, A. Zambrowski, 
and R. Cohen (1999). “Food Stamp Participants’ Food Security and 
Nutrient Availability,” Final Report to the Food and Nutrition Service, U.S. 
Department of Agriculture, Mathematica Policy Research. 
Cole, N. (1997) Evaluation of the Expanded EBT Demonstration in 
Maryland:  Patterns of Food Stamp and Cash Welfare Beneﬁ t Redemption, 
Report submitted to U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition 
Service, by Abt Associates, Inc., February.
Cole, N., and Lee, E. (2005) Analysis of EBT Redemption Patterns:  Methods 
and Detailed Tables, Report submitted to U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
Food and Nutrition Service, by Abt Associates, Inc., November.
Cole, N., D. Hoaglin, and J. Kirlin, J. (2001). National Survey of WIC 
Participants,Report submitted to U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and 
Nutrition Service, by Abt Associates, Inc., June.

===== PAGE 91 =====
81
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Cummins, S., A. Findlay, M. Petticrew, and L. Sparks (2005).  “Healthy 
Cities: The Impact of Food Retail-Led Regeneration on Food Access, Choice 
and Retail Structure,” Built Environment, Vol. 31(4): 288-301.
Hayes, L.R. (2000). “Are Prices Higher for the Poor in New York City?” 
Journal of Consumer Policy, 23 (2): 127-52.
Hendrickson, D., C. Smith, and N. Eikenberry (2006).  “Fruit and Vegetable 
Access in Four Low-Income Food Desert Communities in Minnesota,” 
Agriculture and Human Values, 23:371-383. 
Kaufman, P.R., J.M. MacDonald, S.M. Lutz, and D.M. Smallwood (1997). 
Do the Poor Pay More for Food? Item Selection and Price Differences Affect 
Low-Income Household Food Costs, Agricultural Economic Report No. 759, 
U.S. Department of Agriculture, Economic Research Service.
Koralek, R.D. (1996). Conference on Access to Food September 18 and 19, 
1995: Report of the Proceedings, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and 
Nutrition Service, February.
Lancaster, K. (1966). “A New Approach to Consumer Demand Theory,” 
Journal of Political Science 74 (April): 132-157.
Latham, J., and T. Moffat (2007).  “Determinants of Variation in Food Dost 
and Availability in Two Socioeconomically Contrasting Neighbourhoods of 
Hamilton, Ontario, CA,” Health and Place, 13: 273-287.  
Lin, B. (2005). “Diet Quality Usually Varies by Income Status,” Amber 
Waves, Vol. 3, Issue 4, September. 
Mantovani, R.E., L. Daft, T.F. Macaluso, J. Welsh, and K. Hoffman (1997). 
Authorized Food Retailer Characteristics Study (Technical Report IV): 
Authorized Food Retailers’ Characteristics and Access Study, Report 
submitted to U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, by 
Macro International, Inc.
Mantovani, R.E., and J. Welsh (1996). Authorized Food Retailer 
Characteristics Study (Technical Report III): Geographic Analysis of 
Retailer Access,  report submitted to U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food 
and Nutrition Service, by Macro International, Inc.
Martinez, Steve, and Phil Kaufman (2008).  “Twenty Years of Competition 
Reshape the U.S. Marketing System,” Amber Waves, Vol. 6, Issue 2, April. 
Ohls, J.C., M. Ponza, L.  Moreno, A. Zambrowski, A., and R. Cohen (1999). 
Food Stamp Participants’ Access to Food Retailers, Report submitted to 
U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, by Mathematica 
Policy Research, Inc.
Olander, C., E. Jones, and S. Carlson (2006). An Analysis of Food Stamp 
Redemption Patterns, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition 
Service.

===== PAGE 92 =====
82
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Pearson T, J. Russell, M.J. Campbell, and M.E. Barker (2005). “Do “Food 
Deserts” Inﬂ uence Fruit and Vegetable Consumption?--A Cross-Sectional 
Study,” Appetite 45(2):  195-7.
Rose, Donald and Rickelle Richards (2004).  “Food Store Access and 
Household Fruit and Vegetable Use Among Participants in the US Food 
Stamp Program,” Public Health Nutrition 7(8):  1081-1088.
Talukdar, D. (2008). “Cost of Being Poor: Retail Price and Consumer Price 
Search Differences Across Inner-City and Suburban Neighborhoods,” 
Journal of Consumer Research, 35 (3): 457-71.
Tobin J. (1958).  “Estimation of Relationships for Limited Dependent 
Variables,” Econometrica 26(1): 24-36.
U.S. Department of Agriculture (1975). How to Buy Food for Economy 
and Quality: Recommendations from the United States Department of 
Agriculture. New York: Courier Dover Publications.
Wrigley, N., D. Warm, and B. Margetts (2003).  “Deprivation, Diet and 
Food-Retail Access:  Findings From the Leeds ‘Food Deserts’ Study,” 
Environment and Planning A, 35: 151-188.  
Zenk, Shannon N. et al. (2005). “Fruit and Vegetable Intake in African 
Americans: Income and Store Characteristics,” American Journal of 
Preventive Medicine 29(1):  1-9.

===== PAGE 93 =====
83
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
CHAPTER 6
The Economics of Supermarket 
and Grocery Store Location
There has been little consideration of the economics behind the variation 
in food access across areas.  It is important to understand the economic 
conditions that may contribute to food deserts—that is, the costs that food 
retail businesses face and the choices available to consumers who want to 
buy foods.  This chapter outlines an economic framework for considering 
food access and why some areas may have limited access.  This framework 
considers the consumer and demand factors, business and supply factors, 
and the market conditions that interact to create differences in the food retail 
environment across areas and subpopulations.  The chapter then provides 
a broad overview of the history of supermarket development that captures 
how food retailers have responded to different demand, supply, and market 
conditions.  ERS, through the National Poverty Center at the University of 
Michigan, commissioned a paper to consider the economic framework of food 
deserts (Bitler and Haider, 2009).  This chapter draws heavily from that paper. 
Consumer Behavior and Demand
Factors of Food Access
Food in general is considered to be a normal good—that is, demand for it 
increases as income increases.  Given that food is a normal good, it should 
not be surprising that high-income areas have relatively more foodstores 
and restaurants than low-income areas.  Price is also a major determinant 
of food demand.  The higher the price of a food, the lower the quantity 
demanded.  On the other hand, the higher the price of a substitute food, the 
higher demand will be for that food item.  Given the budget constraints of 
low-income consumers and the prices of some speciﬁ c foods, low-income 
consumers may substitute higher priced goods with lower priced goods (e.g., 
hamburger for steak or canned fruits for fresh fruits).  
Travel costs and time costs of acquiring food as well as the time costs of 
preparing foods are also likely to affect demand for particular foods.  The 
convenience of eating restaurant food or a prepared meal versus eating at 
home may be an important part of demand for food.  Even for foods prepared 
at home, there may be relatively greater time costs than those for prepared 
foods or takeout foods.  Consumers may value the convenience of a fast food 
or prepared meal more because it does not require spending much time to 
prepare.
Demand for some foods could be affected if individuals do not know which 
foods are healthy or unhealthy or if individuals do not know how to use or 
prepare some foods.  Tastes for different foods, or preferences as economists 
call them, may also drive demand and store location.  For example, 
foodstores that sell many Asian or Hispanic food products are often located 
in areas where there are high concentrations of people of Asian or Hispanic 
descent, presumably because demand for those foods is high in those areas.42 
 
42This is a bit of a chicken and egg 
problem—people of a speciﬁ c ethnic 
decent may choose to live in an area 
where they have relatively easy access 
to the foods they wish to consume.  We 
discuss this further later in this chapter.  

===== PAGE 94 =====
84
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Consumers choose where to live and thus, choose the food environment 
available to them.  Clearly, the choices of the poor, especially those living in 
extreme poverty, are constrained by their budgets.  But even among the poor, 
there are choices in where to reside.  This choice is an aspect of food access 
that is not well considered in the literature.  Not accounting for residential 
choice limits the ability to assess whether limited access to affordable and 
nutritious food affects food shopping, diet, and health outcomes.  If two 
people are equal in all other manners, the one who places a high value on 
access to a large supermarket is probably more likely to live in an area 
where those things are available relative to another who values food-related 
amenities less and perhaps other amenities more.
Food Retailer Behavior and Supply
Factors of Food Access
In general, supply is driven by the costs of input goods—in this case, the 
land, materials, machines, and labor needed to build and operate a grocery 
store and the costs of products to stock the shelves.  As these costs increase, 
supply decreases.  Economic theory considers ﬁ xed costs (costs that do not 
change as the quantity of output changes, such as the land and materials 
needed to build a store) and variable costs (the costs of operating that change 
as the quantity of output changes).  Differences in ﬁ xed or variable costs 
across areas could impact the types of stores and products available.  
Food retailers that face higher ﬁ xed costs will either need to charge a higher 
price for goods sold or limit the range of products sold (Bitler and Haider, 
2009).  Fixed costs faced by food retailers probably vary greatly by the 
type of area.  In dense urban areas, land prices may be higher and zoning 
requirements of local governments may be more cumbersome and costly 
to meet relative to less dense suburban and rural areas.  Consequently, it is 
likely that the ﬁ xed costs in urban areas are greater.  Further, the volume 
of sales in a store could affect how much ﬁ xed costs matter to ﬁ rms.  For 
example, stores that serve a higher volume of consumers (either in the 
number of consumers or in terms of the amount they purchase) will be able 
to spread ﬁ xed costs over more people and prices may be lower than in 
stores that serve lower volumes of consumers.  This could explain why some 
rural, less populated areas do not have stores or why some foods may not be 
stocked in low-volume stores, especially foods that perish.  
If ﬁ xed costs drive store location decisions or the types of products sold, 
then the ﬁ xed costs should be higher in low-income areas if these areas are 
underserved.  Within urban areas, for example, low-income areas are likely 
to have lower land prices than high-income areas.  In this case, it would be 
surprising to ﬁ nd that land costs leave some poor areas without access.   It is 
possible that zoning requirements or security costs are higher in poor areas 
and thus more important for stores to locate in those areas (regardless of size) 
(Bitler and Haider, 2009).  
In the United States, supermarket competition within a market region may 
be characterized by a small number of chain supermarkets accounting for 
a large share of the market sales and a large number of smaller “fringe” 
stores, which account for lower total market sales (Ellickson 2005 and 
2007; Smith 2004 and 2006).  Ellickson (2005 and 2007) argues this is 

===== PAGE 95 =====
85
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
consistent with an endogenous ﬁ xed-cost economic framework, as when 
large food retailers incur (take on) ﬁ xed costs to keep competitors from 
entering the market.  Such ﬁ xed costs could come in the form of offering a 
larger variety of products (increasing shelf space and improving distribution 
systems), carrying higher quality products (e.g., organic products), or paying 
advertising costs to differentiate from competitors.  The smaller fringe stores 
do not incur these costs but survive by being more densely distributed (e.g., 
small corner stores that offer convenience over variety or quality) and/or 
by gaining business from consumers who may not value quality or variety 
as much, or who perhaps cannot afford to.  Ellickson (2005 and 2007) ﬁ nds 
evidence that this model may describe the supermarket landscape across the 
United States.  
One major variable cost for operating a foodstore is the cost of hiring 
workers.  Poor areas are often areas with relatively lower wages, which 
should reduce the costs to operate a store, all else equal.  King et al., (2004) 
ﬁ nd that stores serving low-income shoppers (stores with greater shares 
of revenue from SNAP participants) have signiﬁ cantly lower payroll costs 
as a percentage of sales than stores that do not serve as many low-income 
shoppers. 
King et al., (2004) ﬁ nd that operating cost structures of stores with higher 
portions of total revenues from SNAP redemptions are different than those 
of other stores.  For example, the stores had lower labor costs but also lower 
sales margins, and they were more likely to be supplied by wholesalers 
than to be part of a large chain with its own supply chain.  However, overall 
operating costs for these stores were not different than other stores.43  
Economies of scale, economies of scope, and economies of agglomeration 
may also explain why product availability is differentially concentrated 
across areas or stores (Bitler and Haider, 2009).  Economies of scale, which 
is when the costs of operating a store decrease as store size increases, and 
economies of scope, which is when the costs decrease as more product 
variety increases, suggests that larger stores that offer greater variety can do 
so and offer lower prices.  Both factors may account for the ability of larger 
stores to survive more easily than smaller stores.  For example, if wholesale 
costs to stock store shelves are lower for larger stores because they can buy 
in bulk and buy a greater variety of products more cheaply, larger stores may 
be able to lower prices and smaller stores may not be able to compete.  This 
does not explain, however, why larger stores do not locate in low-income 
areas.   
In a competitive marketplace, ﬁ rms selling the same products may have a 
disincentive to locate near each other.  But this may not always be the case.  
Economies of agglomeration, where the costs of operating a store are lower 
when a store is located near other stores (e.g., because of roads or distribution 
systems), may explain why stores are concentrated in some areas and not in 
others.  
The Market
The market is where consumers and suppliers meet, their interactions 
determining the prices paid and the products bought and sold.  The most 
 
43Fixed costs were not considered in 
this study.  

===== PAGE 96 =====
86
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
basic economic models assume that markets are perfectly competitive and 
that food retailers and consumers do not have control over price.  In such a 
case, it is possible that if demand is sufﬁ ciently low, retailers would not be 
willing to supply products because they could not sell them or could only sell 
them at higher prices.  
It is possible that food retailers actually have some market power, especially 
in settings where there are few competitors.  If so, then retailers would 
have an incentive to increase price and restrict quantities to increase proﬁ ts.  
Supply-side conditions, such as high ﬁ xed costs or economies of scale, could 
lead to food retailers having market power (Bitler and Haider, 2009).  
It is possible that the supply-and-demand conditions are such that the market 
does not operate efﬁ ciently—that some intervention could be implemented 
that would improve circumstances for both retailers and consumers.  A 
market failure could arise, if for example, there is poor information on the 
part of suppliers about the foods that consumers in an area will demand (for 
a given price).  For example, if the models that supermarkets use to predict 
sales in an area do not adequately capture potential sales in low-income areas 
as some have suggested, better information on the potential sales could lead 
to more stores or products offered in those areas (Drake, 2009; Policy Link, 
2007).  
Supermarket “redlining,” which has been suggested as a possible reason 
some low-income or minority areas lack larger stores, could also constitute 
a market failure.  Economic theory suggests that if markets are competitive, 
a retail ﬁ rm that does not discriminate should have an incentive to locate in 
an area that is, except for its minority status, otherwise the same as any other 
area served by a supermarket.  That is, the market would tend to reward ﬁ rms 
that locate in otherwise underserved areas because there is less competition, 
at least in the short run.  In the long run, nondiscriminating ﬁ rms will enter 
the area until no more ﬁ rms can be supported by the population.  If ﬁ rms lack 
good information on the true purchasing power or demand for food in areas 
with concentrations of racial or ethnic minorities, then this market failure is 
one potential reason why ﬁ rms do not locate in these areas.  
 It is also important to note that housing market discrimination could limit 
the ability of minorities to move to areas that may have better access to food.  
Legal discrimination in housing and lending markets (which existed until 
the Fair Housing Act of 1968) and illegal discrimination since then (Turner 
and Skidmore, 1999; Turner et al., 2002a; Turner et al., 2002b; Wyly and 
Holloway, 1999) could potentially limit residential choice of affected groups, 
which could contribute to disparities in supermarket access.  
Economic theory suggests that either supply conditions or demand conditions 
could lead to variation across areas in store locations, the types of stores 
available, and the products and prices offered within stores.  Unfortunately 
it is difﬁ cult to determine how much either supply conditions or demand 
conditions affect store location and the types of foods that are offered 
because they are determined simultaneously.  Monitoring price could help.  
For example, if the price of some nutritious foods in underserved areas is 
high but the prices of other nutritious foods are cheaper, it is likely that 
demand-side factors are driving differences in availability (Bitler and Haider, 

===== PAGE 97 =====
87
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
2009).  Likewise, understanding more about cost differences of suppliers 
in different areas could also help determine if supply side factors are to 
blame.  Finally, it may be also be useful to consider the markets for other 
goods and services in low-income areas.  Many areas that are underserved 
by supermarkets may also be underserved by other businesses, such as banks 
or health care services.  Understanding whether such businesses face similar 
costs or similar demand for products as food retailers might help explain 
the lack of supermarkets and other businesses in general (Bitler and Haider, 
2009). 
Broad Trends in the Supermarket and 
Food Retail Environments
Very broadly, grocery retail has gone through three major changes 
(innovations) in the past century:  the rise of chain grocery stores over 
independently owned stores, the rise of supermarkets that offered an 
increased number and variety of products; and the rise of supercenters that 
continued the trend to even larger stores offering more and more products 
(Ellickson, 2005; Tedlow, 1990).  In each of these cases, suppliers found 
ways to decrease the costs of production in order to bring lower prices to 
consumers.  Chain grocery stores used integration of manufacturing and 
wholesaling to cut out middlemen and offer lower prices (Ellickson, 2005).  
The middle of the 20th century saw a rise in automobile use, interstate 
highways, and movement of residences and businesses to the suburbs where 
large tracts of land were available for relatively lower costs.  Supermarkets 
grew in size and carried an increasing variety of products (Tedlow, 1990).  
The advent of computerized logistics and inventory systems integrated 
with the supermarkets themselves occurred during the 1980s and 1990s 
and provided the catalyst for the most recent trend toward supercenters.  
Ellickson (2005) shares evidence of this growth—in 1980, the average 
store carried 14,145 products; by 2004, the average store carried over 
30,000 products.  Reliance on their own distribution and inventory systems 
along with larger store sizes allowed supercenters to charge lower prices.  
Wal-Mart, which is now the Nation’s largest retailer of grocery products, is 
one model of this type of format.  
Competition spurred by this latest trend to supercenters has contributed to 
other developments among more traditional supermarkets.  Some retailers 
target middle and higher income consumers—often offering specialty 
products or primarily organic products (e.g., Whole Foods) (Drake, 2009).  
Other retailers have offered their own line of premium store brands and 
organic store brands to tap into the more health-conscious consumers (e.g., 
Kroger’s Naturally Preferred or Giant Food’s Nature’s Promise lines) 
(Martinez and Kaufman, 2008).   
Hard discount stores, which target bargain and low-income shoppers, have 
also developed.  These stores are typically smaller than other supermarkets 
(typically between 10,000 to 14,000 square feet, compared with an overall 
average store size of 48,000 square feet), offer more private label brands and 
fewer national brands, and offer fewer product size options.  Many of these 
stores operate in underserved or low-income areas.  Examples include: 

===== PAGE 98 =====
88
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
• Save-a-Lot (a subsidiary of SuperValu, Inc.) operates 1,200 stores, 
including 4 in Prince Georges County, Maryland, and 1 store in Coahoma 
County, Mississippi, a persistently poor county in the Mississippi Delta 
region. 
• ALDI stores (a German discount retailer which opened its ﬁ rst U.S. 
stores in Southeastern Iowa) have 1,000 stores in 29 States.  
• Fresh and Easy Neighborhood Markets (a subsidiary of Tesco, the UK’s 
largest retailer) opened two stores last year in low-income areas of Los 
Angeles (Compton and Eagle Rock).  
• Food4Less (a subsidiary of the Kroger Co.) recently opened a store in 
Englewood, an impoverished neighborhood on the southwest side of 
Chicago.  
Food retail has also expanded to retailers that have not focused on food 
in the past.  This “channel blurring” has occurred among pharmacies, 
which typically carry snack and convenience foods and increasingly carry 
refrigerated and frozen items, and among dollar stores (such as Family Dollar 
and Dollar Store) (Martinez and Kaufman, 2008; Sharkey and Horel, 2009).  
Warehouse clubs (e.g., Costco and Sam’s Club), which offer a limited 
variety of food products and larger or bulk sizes, have also expanded into 
food markets, serving primarily small businesses and middle-upper-income 
consumers (Martinez and Kaufman, 2008). 
Finally, grocery stores and supermarkets also compete with restaurants and 
other sources of food away from home.  Almost half of all food spending 
in the United States is for food away from home (48.9 percent in 2006) 
(Martinez and Kaufman, 2008).
Given these competitive forces, why is it that some areas lack access to a 
supermarket or large grocery store?  The range of reasons offered include 
some that are identiﬁ ed in this chapter and others that have been summarized 
elsewhere..44  Many apply speciﬁ cally to urban areas, but some apply to rural 
areas as well.  Examples include the following:  
• Zoning and regulatory approval processes
• The need to secure land sites large enough for stores
• Environmental remediation and/or demolition of current structures
• Higher construction and operating (e.g., rent, real estate taxes, security 
costs) costs in urban areas
• Lower access (to customers and to distribution chains), visibility, or 
trafﬁ c ﬂ ow and less space for parking in urban areas relative to suburban 
areas
• Local politics, where ofﬁ cials and groups may have competing goals for 
development
Despite these potential hurdles, large, high-density populations in 
underserved urban areas and less competition are two factors that may make 
 
44See Drake, 2009; Policy Link, 
2008; Food Marketing Institute, 1998.

===== PAGE 99 =====
89
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
underserved areas attractive for food retail development (Food Marketing 
Institute, 1998).   
Summary
Economic theory can help explain why some areas may have limited access.  
Consumer behavior and demand-side issues, such as lack of knowledge of 
the nutritional beneﬁ ts of foods or food retailer behavior, and supply-side 
issues, such as different ﬁ xed costs for developing a store in an underserved 
area, may explain variation across areas in the types of foods offered and 
the stores that offer them.  Further research is needed to determine which 
factors may be driving differences in access.  This research could explore 
how differences in ﬁ xed and operating costs of different areas may account 
for variation in access to different types of stores or different products 
within stores.  Research could also consider how consumer knowledge and 
preferences and the time cost tradeoffs affect consumer decisions of which 
foods to eat and whether to make or to buy prepared foods or restaurant 
meals.  Research on price variation at the local level and spatial demand 
models could also be used to help determine which factors contribute to 
differences in access to food retailers.  
References
Bitler, Marianne, and Steven J. Haider (2009).  “An Economic View of Food 
Deserts in the United States,” National Poverty Center Working Paper. http://
www.npc.umich.edu/news/events/food-access/index.php (Accessed 3/30/09). 
Drake, W. (2009).  “Food Retailer Site Location Motivations, Methodologies 
and Behaviors,” Presentation at the IOM/NRC Workshop on the Public 
Health Effects of Food Deserts.  January 27, 2009, Washington, DC.
Ellickson, Paul B. (2007) “Quality Competition in Retailing:  A Structural 
Analysis,” International Journal of Industrial Organization 24(3), 521-540. 
Ellickson, Paul B.  (2005). “Does Sutton Apply to Supermarkets?”  RAND 
Journal of Economics. 38(1), 43-59.  
Food Marketing Institute (1998).  Urban Supermarkets, Food Marketing 
Institute. 
King, Robert P., Ephraim S. Leibtag, and Ajay S. Behl (2004). “Supermarket 
Characteristics and Operating Costs in Low-Income Areas,” U.S. Department 
of Agriculture, Economic Research Service, Agricultural Economic Report 
No. 839.  
Martinez, Steve, and Phil Kaufman (2008).  “Twenty Years of Competition 
Reshape the U.S. Marketing System,” Amber Waves, Vol. 6, Issue 2, April.
Neckerman, K.M., M. Bader, M. Purciel, P. Yousefzadeh (2009).  
“Measuring Food Access in Urban Areas,” National Poverty Center Working 
Paper, http://www.npc.umich.edu/news/events/food-access/index.php

===== PAGE 100 =====
90
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Policy Link, and LISC Bay Area (2007).  Grocery Store Attraction 
Strategies, http://www.policylink.org/documents/groceryattraction_ﬁ nal.pdf 
Rose, D., J.N. Bodor, C.M. Swalm, J.C. Rice, T.A. Farley, and P.L. 
Hutchinson (2009).  “Deserts in New Orleans?  Illustrations of Urban Food 
Access and Implications for Policy,” National Poverty Center Working 
Paper, http://www.npc.umich.edu/news/events/food-access/index.php.
Sharkey, J.R., and S. Horel (2009).  “Characteristics of Potential Spatial 
Access to a Variety of Fruits and Vegetables in a Large Rural Area,” 
National Poverty Center Working Paper, http://www.npc.umich.edu/news/
events/food-access/index.php 
Smith, H. (2006).  “Store Characteristics and Retail Oligopoly,” Rand 
Journal of Economics, 37(2): 416-430. 
Smith, H. (2004).  “Supermarket Choice and Supermarket Competition in 
Market Equilibrium,” 71(1): 235-263.  
Sparks, A., N. Bania, L. Leete (2009).  “Finding Food Deserts:  Methodology 
and Measurement of Food Access in Portland, Oregon,” National Poverty 
Center Working Paper, http://www.npc.umich.edu/news/events/food-access/
index.php 
Tedlow, R.S. (1990). New and Improved: The Story of Mass Marketing in 
America, Cambridge, MA:  Harvard Business School Press.  
Turner, M.A., F. Frieberg, E. Godfrey, C. Herbig, D.K. Levy, and R.R. Smith 
(2002a).  All Other Things Being Equal:  A Paired Testing Study of Mortgage 
Lending Institutions, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
Turner, M.A. and F. Skidmore (1999).  Mortgage Lending Discrimination: A 
Review of Existing Evidence, Urban Institute Monograph Series on Race and 
Discrimination, Urban Institute. 
Turner, M.A., S.L. Ross, G.C. Galster, and J. Yinger (2002b).  
Discrimination in Metropolitan Housing Markets:  National Results from 
Phase I of HDS2000, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
Wyly, E.K., and S.R. Holloway (1999).  “The New Color of Money:  
Neighborhood Lending Patterns in Atlanta Revisited,” Housing Facts and 
Findings 1(2): 1-11. 

===== PAGE 101 =====
91
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
CHAPTER 7
Community Food Projects
Nationwide analyses look for solutions that address large segments of 
the population. Community food projects (CFP) are projects in which 
low-income communities develop their food systems.  CFP are by nature 
small and comprehensive within geographical places, with deep roots and a 
broad array of impacts on individual communities.  The Community Food 
Projects Competitive Grant Program (CFPCGP) at USDA’s Cooperative 
State Research, Education and Extension Service funds innovative 
demonstration food projects that lead to food system changes unique to the 
communities they serve. These small projects can reduce the negative impact 
of areas with limited access to affordable and nutritious food, thus making 
community the appropriate unit of analysis.
Community Food Security
The CFPCGP was designed to address issues of “community food security.”  
Community food security incorporates the participation of local communities 
in developing innovative approaches that foster local solutions for feeding 
low-income families.  This strategy encourages a greater role for the 
entire food system, including local agriculture, and represents a proactive 
approach to ﬁ ghting hunger, economic and social justice, and environmental 
stewardship.  
Unlike the charity model, which provides emergency food as a short-term 
solution, the community food security concept addresses the long-term need 
of communities to obtain a safe, culturally acceptable, nutritionally adequate 
diet through a sustainable food system that maximizes community self-
reliance and social justice (Hamm and Bellows, 2003).  Community food 
security projects also address the broader well-being of the community, that 
is, its economic, social, and environmental issues.
Legislative authority
The CFPCGP was established through Authority Section 25 of the Food 
Stamp Act of 1977, as amended in 1996 and by Section 4125 of the Farm 
Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (Pub. L. No. 107-171) (7 U.S.C. 
2034), and further amended by Section 4402 of the Food, Conservation and 
Energy Act of 2008 and the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (Public Law No. 
110-234) (7 U.S.C. 2034). This law authorized a program of Federal grants 
to support the development of community food projects at a funding level of 
$5 million annually through FY 2012. 
Community food projects competitive grant program
Food is a very basic need.  Seeing this need, community leaders all over the 
country have begun to organize their communities around food access. This 
is especially true in low-income communities where food sources often are 
most scarce.  The primary goals of the CFPCGP are to:

===== PAGE 102 =====
92
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
• Meet the food needs of low-income individuals; 
• Increase the food self-reliance of low-income communities; 
• Promote comprehensive responses to local food, farm, and nutrition 
issues; and 
• Meet speciﬁ c State, local, or neighborhood food and agricultural needs.  
Projects can address needs relating to infrastructure improvement and 
development, planning for long-term solutions, or the creation of innovative 
marketing activities that mutually beneﬁ t agricultural producers and 
low-income consumers
Current CFPCGP status
CFPCGP was funded for $1 million in 1996, $2.5 million for 1997-2001, and 
$5 million beginning in 2002 (current legislation).  Since 1996, 290 projects 
have been funded in 48 States. Currently, three types of projects are funded 
each year, each type for 1 to 3 years:
• Planning projects, funded at $10,000 to $25,000, provide seed money for 
communities beginning to address their community food security issues.  
Planning projects are a separate type of project started in 2006 and 
represent 20 to 30 percent of the funded projects, but only 3 to 5 percent 
of the funding.
• Training and technical assistance projects, averaging $100,000 to 
$300,000, assist organizations in applying for community-based or 
planning projects and with running grants once awarded.  T&TA projects 
represent about 15 to 20 percent of the funded projects and approximately 
10 percent of the funding.
• The community-based food projects are funded at $10,000 to $300,000. 
CFP projects represent about 50 to 60 percent of the projects funded and 
85 percent of the funds.
The community food projects
Because the community food projects are designed to solve local problems, 
they vary considerably based on local needs. Their speciﬁ city is both a major 
strength and a challenge for evaluating them at a national level—and for 
describing how they contribute to addressing issues within areas with limited 
access to affordable and nutritious food.  
The following are examples of the types of issues that are addressed within 
CFP.  These were extracted by Pothukuchi (2007) in a study of projects’ 
self-reported evaluation of performance on goals and objectives.  The study 
reﬂ ects summary data of grantee reports from 42 CFPs funded between 1999 
and 2003.
Issues addressed in Community Food Projects  
• Healthy food availability: Increase the availability of healthy, 
locally produced foods, especially in impoverished and underserved 

===== PAGE 103 =====
93
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
neighborhoods, through food assistance programs, backyard and 
community gardens, grocery stores, farmers’ markets, Community 
Supported Agriculture shares, food buying clubs, and other resources.
• Healthy diets: Encourage the adoption of healthy diets by providing 
culturally and age-appropriate training and experiences for youth and 
adults in food production, preparation, and nutrition.
• Nutrition program participation: Enroll eligible residents in 
government nutrition programs such as SNAP, WIC (Special 
Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children), and 
the Farmers’ Market Nutrition Programs.
• Local food marketing: Increase local markets for small- and family-
scale farms, including direct marketing and purchases by local 
institutions and businesses.
• Sustainable agriculture: Support agricultural practices that protect 
air, water, soil, and habitats; promote biodiversity; reduce energy use; 
promote reuse and recycling; and treat animals humanely.
• Food-related entrepreneurship: Support on- and off-farm value-added 
and processing enterprises, especially smaller operations and those 
owned by women and minorities.
Table 7.1
Community Food Projects Competitive Grant Program Activities, 2006
Percent
Youth/school gardening or agricultural project
81
Promoting local food purchases
73
Food access and outreach
57
Entrepreneurial food and agriculture 
53
Community food assessment
47
Farm to cafeteria
47
Farmers’ market
47
Food policy council/network
47
Job skills training
47
Training and technical assistance
47
Community gardens
43
Community-supported agriculture
43
Micro-enterprise/Entrepreneur skill training
43
Emergency food collection and distribution
37
Farm/Grower cooperative
37
Restoration of traditional foods/agriculture
27
Community or incubator kitchen/Value-added 
  Production/Processing
26
Immigrant/Migrant farm project
16
Food-buying cooperative
14
Source: USDA, CSREES calculations based on Abi-nader, 2007. 

===== PAGE 104 =====
94
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
• Farm worker conditions: Promote safe and fair working conditions 
for farmers, farm workers, and other food workers, such as those in 
processing plants and wholesale and retail operations.
• Food heritages: Honor and celebrate diverse food cultures and traditions 
in the community.
• Local food system awareness: Develop greater awareness and 
appreciation among residents of the value of local foods and food 
heritages to encourage more locally based eating.
• Integration of food in community processes: Systematically integrate 
food system issues into community and regional planning and other 
community institutions and processes to promote public health, economic 
vitality, social equity, and ecological sustainability.
• Food system participatory planning: Engage community residents and 
organizations in collaboratively assessing food needs, and devising and 
implementing actions to meet needs.
• Food democracy: Increase residents’ awareness of and voice in food-
related decisions at different levels of government.
The goal of addressing these issues is to bring communities to a higher 
level awareness of their community food system so that awareness leads to 
action, deﬁ cits and assets are assessed,; resources are examined, and potential 
solutions to problems are tried and tested.  Community involvement can be a 
potent force in overcoming food access issues. 
One way to see how these issues are addressed within CFP is to look at the 
national level output reports. The CFPCGP works with grantees to develop 
and implement a program-wide evaluation.  Currently, grantees voluntarily 
report common activities (Common Output Tracking Form) across their 
projects.  The latest analysis from 2006 enumerated 19 project-type activities 
reported by 51 of a possible 65 projects (table 7.1).  The projects are 
comprehensive and have many component activities.  The percentages in the 
table refer to the share of projects that report having managed or participated 
in the activity.  It is hoped that the combination of these activities leads to 
systems change within a community and that the multi-pronged approach to 
getting more food into the community increases food security for the long 
term.  The net sum of these activities is to reduce the impact of limited access 
to food.  Here are some examples of how the combinations of different 
activities have been implemented: 
“This kind of systems thinking guides the CFPCGP and is evident 
in the projects that have received funds.  In places as different as 
Lubbock, Texas and Green Bay, Wisconsin, the CFP has played 
a key role in building comprehensive approaches to multiple 
problems.  The South Plains Food Bank of Lubbock uses its 5 ½ 
acre farm to produce food for the food bank. The farm also serves 
as a demonstration site for sustainable farming practice, a youth 
training and job site, and a community–supported agriculture 
facility. In Green Bay, the Brown County Task Force on Hunger 
identiﬁ ed the region’s large Hmong population as the group most 

===== PAGE 105 =====
95
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Examples of Community Food Projects by Type of Project
Food Assessments
Fresno Fresh Access Project, Fresno Metropolitan Ministry, Fresno, CA, 
www.fresnometroministry.org
Community Tradition, Foods, and Future, Legacy Cultural Learning Center, 
Muskogee, OK, www.legacycultural.org/artwellness
Food Policy Councils
Food Access and Food Justice in New Orleans:  Rising above the Waterline, 
New Orleans Food and Farm Network,  www.noffn.org
Educating State Legislative Leaders and CFP Grantees about Policy Options 
that Support Community Food Systems, National Conference of State 
Legislatures, www.ncsl.org
Youth Programs
Healthy Harvests Initiative:  Building Boston’s Food Security from the Ground Up, 
The Food Project, Lincoln, MA, www.thefoodproject.org
Food for Life, Youth Farm and Market Project, Minneapolis, MN, 
www.youthfarm.net
Entrepreneurial Food and Agriculture Activities
Appalachian FoodNet Project and Rural Food Centers Project, Appalachian 
Center for Economic Networks, Athens, OH, www.acenetworks.org
Building an Integrated Sustainable Food System, Appalachian Sustainable 
Development, Abington, VA, www.apsusdev.org
Urban Agriculture
Integrated Development Through Urban Agriculture, Nuestras Raices, Holyoke, 
MA, www.nuestras-raices.org
Neighborhood Urban Agriculture Coalition, Greensgrow, Philadelphia, PA, 
www.greensgrow.org
Rural Producers
Tribal Fish Market Connection Project, Ecotrust and Columbia River Inter-Tribal 
Fish Commission, Portland, OR, www.ecotrust.org
Patchwork Family Farms:  Value-added Processing for Community Food 
Security, Missouri Rural Crisis Center, Columbia, MO, 
www.inmotionmagazine.com/rural.html
Community Gardens
Urban Detroit Agriculture and Education Project, Capuchin Soup Kitchen, 
Detroit, MI, www.cskdetroit.org.
For detailed descriptions of these projects, see appendix D.  

===== PAGE 106 =====
96
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
at risk for food insecurity.  The Hmong beneﬁ t from small business 
and enterprise mentoring that allows them to develop farm- and 
food-related micro-businesses.  Self-sufﬁ ciency and self-help 
are putting people on the road to food security.” (Healthy Food 
Healthy Communities, 2006). 
Examples of community food projects
There are many types of CFPs, including food assessments, food policy 
councils, youth projects, entrepreneurial food and agriculture activities, urban 
agriculture, rural producers, and community garden projects.  This section 
describes the general goals and structures of these types of CFPs (see box, 
“Examples of Community Food Projects by Type of Project”). Detailed 
descriptions of these projects are given in appendix D.  
Food assessments 
A community food assessment (CFA) is a way for a community to identify 
both its challenges and its resources around food and to use food as a tool 
for community development. Of 51 projects reporting on the COTF in 2006, 
24 percent had conducted CFAs. An assessment of the local food system 
is a way to bring the whole community together around a single issue that 
matters to everyone—food.  A CFA can motivate people to make change 
to improve food access.  It serves the goals of the CFPCGP by involving 
low-income community members in becoming aware of and analyzing the 
food system and by making community members part of the solution. Two 
food assessments funded by CFPCGP are listed in the box and detailed in 
appendix D. 
Food policy councils
Food policy councils (FPCs) may take many forms but typically are 
commissioned by State or local government, with participation from 
diverse stakeholders engaged in food and agriculture.  They foster a more 
comprehensive and coordinated approach to addressing food system issues 
by bringing together stakeholders to develop and implement solutions. FPCs 
play various roles, including educating ofﬁ cials and the public, making 
policy recommendations, improving coordination between existing programs, 
and starting new programs.  FPCs help identify ways that governments can 
mobilize existing resources or shape policy to improve the food system 
(Winne, 2008).  
FPCs have sometimes been the focus of applicants who see the need to 
address policy issues early on in their community food work.  Other grantees 
have found that they need an FPC to address barriers confronted during 
the operation of their project.  Projects have often run into local ordinances 
or legislative barriers and have formed formal and informal policy groups 
to deal with these issues. For example, a project in Washington State 
established a market garden on public land only to ﬁ nd that legislation 
disallowed marketing from the land. The amendments to the CFPCGP 
legislation in 2002 put an added emphasis on funding planning and 
policy activities within the program.  Examples of Food Policy Councils 
projects funded by CFPCGP include a food policy council in New Orleans, 

===== PAGE 107 =====
97
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Louisiana, and a nationwide policy project funded to educate State legislators 
about food systems issues and CFP grantees about policy issues.
Youth projects
Some CFPs are speciﬁ cally targeted toward youth.  The goals of these 
projects are often educational—providing agricultural, nutrition, meal 
preparation, and culinary training to young people.  A basic idea of these 
projects is to strengthen the connections between youth and the foods 
they eat.  Two examples of youth-focused CFPs are the Healthy Harvests 
Initiative and the Food for Life program. 
Entrepreneurial food and agricultural activity
The goals of these types of projects are to build the capacity of communities 
to develop and promote their own agricultural activities.  The projects often 
involve entrepreneurial training, technical assistance in expanding local 
markets, developing and producing value-added products or infrastructure 
development.  Examples of projects that have served rural and low-income 
communities include the Appalachian Center for Economic Networks 
in Athens, OH, and Building an Integrated Sustainable Food System in 
Abington, Virginia.  
Urban agriculture, rural producers, and community gardens 
These types of projects offer support for developing commercial gardens and 
food production for sale or for home consumption in underserved urban or 
rural areas.  Funds are used for developing capacity to grow, sell, and market 
food for commercial enterprises or to grow and prepare food for at-home 
consumption. The projects cover a wide range of areas and communities.  
Lessons Learned
Annually, national experts are selected as peer reviewers for the CFPCGP.  
Reviewers select the most meritorious proposals through a competitive 
process for funding.  The reviewers are people who run community food 
projects, work in academia, or do similar work and know what works in 
communities.  Through the years, lessons have been learned about what tends 
to work in communities and what does not.  These lessons include project 
development issues, challenges faced by CFPs, and general lessons about 
community food security work.  Some of the lessons learned include the 
following:
 Project Development
• Projects must be “community-based,” not “community-placed” to be 
successful in the long term.  A number of projects in the early years of 
the program represented institutions’ “good ideas” about what would 
bring more food into the community.  These “top-down” projects tend 
not to work.  A classic version of a top-down project is building a 
community garden without gaining consensus from the community.  
Projects must come from the community and must be a solution to 
their perceived needs for improving food security in their community.

===== PAGE 108 =====
98
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
• Three years is a very short time to develop a project that is going to be 
sustainable and economically viable.  Often, more than three years is 
needed.  
• The program requires that projects become “self-sustaining” 
without deﬁ ning the term.  Sustainability has many deﬁ nitions.  The 
sustainability of projects must be interpreted loosely.  In some cases, 
it can be interpreted as meaning economically self-sustaining.  For 
example, a youth farmstand would have to make enough money from 
selling produce to allow the project to move into the future.  But 
another way to view sustainability of a youth education program is 
that the skills learned by youth will stay with them into the future and 
increase their ability to be self-sufﬁ cient.
• Feedback reviews from unsuccessful grant applications for CFPCGP 
have led to successful subsequent applications.  Projects are improved 
considerably by acting on review comments.
• Small community organizations must build leadership within their 
organizations to ensure that food projects can continue beyond the 
guidance of one charismatic leader. 
Challenges
• In several projects, securing available land for community gardens was 
only the ﬁ rst problem.  Requirements to test the health of the soil and 
remediate soil for contaminants presented further challenges. One project 
turned this experience into a community outreach initiative.  Youth 
gardeners became leaders in the community through their efforts to test 
neighbors’ soil so that their gardens would be free of contamination as 
well.
• Some projects unexpectedly encountered local ordinances that interfered 
with plans (see earlier Washington State example). 
• Land access for food production and transportation to gardens and 
foodstores were major hurdles for many projects.  City-owned lands 
could be taken after soil remediation, sending projects back to the 
beginning.
Programmatic lessons
• Immigrant populations are a force in the community food security 
movement.  Many groups come from agrarian backgrounds and eagerly 
approach the promise of growing familiar foods and marketing to fellow 
immigrants.  Farmers’ markets create viable local food sources for 
the broader community and an economic foothold for new immigrant 
populations. The “new” fruits and vegetables introduced by immigrants 
are a nutritional asset for the American diet.
• Native American and Native Hawaiian projects are stimulating interest 
and reviving deep connections to traditional foods among these groups, 
and they are offering elements of native diets that may be healthier 
options than alternative foods currently consumed.

===== PAGE 109 =====
99
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
• Projects employing youth in community food projects are ﬁ nding that 
they are successfully engaging the future leaders in the community food 
security movement.
• Corner stores are seen as a potential tool for improving the diets of 
low-income residents of communities with limited food access.  Corner 
stores tend to not have the resources to make the transition to selling 
more fresh foods.  One project found that corner stores could not afford 
the refrigeration necessary, their regular suppliers did not handle fresh 
produce, and they lacked the expertise to handle fresh produce.
• Community food projects by nature are dynamic and change to adapt to 
the ever-changing environment.  The CFPCGP has had to be ﬂ exible to 
allow projects to adapt to change.
• Community food projects frequently have unexpected outcomes.  One 
unexpected outcome is that community gardens have been seen to reduce 
crime in the vicinity of gardens.  A project in a public housing unit was 
adopted by a park service adjacent to the garden. After the garden came 
into existence, crime and vandalism rates dropped signiﬁ cantly in the 
park area, encouraging the park service to continue the project.
• Food can be a powerful community organizing tool.  Ethnic foods 
can provide strong bonds between community members that help 
lead to unity in solving other community issues. A disintegrating 
infrastructure in Holyoke, Massachusetts, led community leaders to 
start building gardens to grow ethnic foods, which progressively led to 
farmstands, small farms, and ethnic festivals.  Youth gardens in Boston, 
Massachusetts, fostered better relationships between generations and 
racial groups.  Native American groups found power in advocacy as 
their awareness of traditional foods increased through community 
food assessments with elders and they learned how traditional foods 
could be restored in their communities.  Community gardens can break 
down isolation and bring people out into the community for positive 
interaction, which often results in reduced crime rates.
Community food projects are small, community-driven attempts to address 
the problem of food access in low-income communities.  CFP projects 
often grow from frustrations stemming from poor access to food sources.  A 
frequent ﬁ rst step is assessing what exists, as well as, what is missing in the 
community. Knowledge of what assets exist often strengthens a community’s 
collective conﬁ dence to tackle problem solving.  
When communities come together to address their community food 
security issues, their solutions often go beyond food access to include 
social, economic, and environmental issues as well.  Food is an attractive 
community development tool.  A community food security approach to 
ﬁ ghting food access problems is a viable way to make a difference in small, 
yet signiﬁ cant ways for those individual communities that are affected by 
a lack of access to food.  Modest grants for communities across the Nation 
have given people the incentive they need to build solutions that match the 
needs of the community. The goal of the CFPCGP has been to build capacity 
in communities to achieve food security and to demonstrate model programs 
that may be adopted in other communities across the country. 

===== PAGE 110 =====
100
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
References
Abi-nader, J. (2007). “Community Food Security Coalition and National 
Research Council Common Output Tracking Form, Fiscal Year 2006 
Results” (Internal, unpublished document).
CRP Incorporated (1998). A Study of Access to Nutritious and Affordable 
Food, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service.
First Nation’s Development Institute (2004). “Food Sovereignty Assessment 
Tool,” www.ﬁ rstnations.org/publications
Fisher, A. (2009).  Presentation at the IOM/NRC Workshop on the Public 
Health Effects of Food Deserts, January 27, Washington, DC.
FNS-314 (2000).  Together We Can!  A What, Why and How Handbook 
for Working to End Hunger in Your Community, U.S. Department of 
Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, January.
FNS-315 (2000).  The National Nutrition Safety Net. Tools for Community 
Food Security, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, 
January. 
Hamm, M.W. and A.C. Bellows (2003).  “Community Food Security and 
Nutrition Educators”.  Journal of Nutrition Education and Behavior, 35(10): 
37-43.  
Healthy Food Healthy Communities: A Decade of Community Food Projects 
in Action, 2006 (developed in cooperation between USDA, CSREES, 
Community Food Security Coalition, and World Hunger Year), http://www.
foodsecurity.org/pubs.html#cfpdecade
Jessup, E., J. Hofer, P. Moua (2005). The Fresno Metro Ministry Fresno 
Fresh Access Community Food Assessment was staffed by the Hunger and 
Nutrition Project: Fresno Metro Ministry, www.fresnometroministry.org
Koralek, R.D. (1996). Conference on Access to Food September 18 and 
19, 1995, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, 
November.
O’Connor, J.J., and B. Abell (1992). Successful Supermarkets in Low-Income 
Inner Cities, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, 
August.
Pothukuchi, K., K. Seidenburg, and J. Abi-Nader (2007). Building 
Community Food Security: Lessons from Community Food Projects, 1999-
2003, October 2007, http://www.foodsecurity.org/pubs.html#building.
Winne, M. (2008). “Issue Brief: America’s Farms Feed America’s Children,” 
Community Food Security Coalition, www.foodsecurity.org. 
Winne, M. (2008). Personal communication, November 15, 2008.

===== PAGE 111 =====
101
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
World Hunger Year (2009). “Community Food Projects Database,” Food 
Security Learning Center, http://www.yhunger.org/programs/fslc/features/
community-food-projects-database.html 

===== PAGE 112 =====

===== PAGE 113 =====
103
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
CHAPTER 8
Policy Options
A variety of programs and policies to reduce the effects of limited access to 
affordable and nutritious food have been implemented or considered across 
the country.  This chapter discusses broad categories of these programs 
and highlights examples that either have been implemented in an area or 
are under consideration.  Many of the programs have been initiated at the 
community, local, or State levels, some with Federal support (as described in 
the previous chapter), but often only with support from localities, States, or 
private sources.  Where available, evidence of the effectiveness of programs 
that have already been implemented is considered, although there is not a 
substantial literature from which such evaluations can be drawn.  The chapter 
concludes with some broad guiding principals for setting policy priorities.  
It is suggested that a variety of demonstration projects might be a feasible 
way to begin efforts to decrease the effects of limited access to food and to 
simultaneously learn more about what works and what does not.   
Incentive Programs To Entice New Stores 
or Improve Existing Stores
The discussion at the end of Chapter 6 described broad trends in supermarket 
and foodstore markets.  These trends have had major impacts on where 
supermarkets of different types locate and the prices that consumers face.  
The trends also exhibit the market forces that drive food retailers to adjust 
their store formats, production costs, and location decisions.  For example, 
the rise of nontraditional retailers in food retail (supercenters and large 
discount stores like Wal-Mart, Costco, or Super Target), which offer foods 
at prices that are 8 to 27 percent lower than at large supermarket chains, 
has changed the competitive environment and has likely led to decreases 
in the average prices of foods for consumers (Leibtag, 2006).  These stores 
are not typically located in urban areas and may not be accessible in all 
rural areas either.  Thus, those outside of the reach of these large stores 
may be less affected by the price beneﬁ ts of the stores.  On the other hand, 
several major supermarkets have subsidiaries tailored speciﬁ cally to cater 
to low-income and bargain shoppers, for example, Save-A-Lot, ALDI, and 
Food-4-Less stores.  Often these stores locate in low-income neighborhoods 
or underserved rural areas.  They serve as examples of market-driven 
alternatives--meaning that the retailers sees a gap in a market where they 
can proﬁ tably operate and adjust their business models to ﬁ t the needs of the 
consumers, in this case, low-income consumers and discount shoppers.  
Some traditional grocers have opened stores in more densely populated areas 
(although not necessarily low-income areas), adapting their store models to 
ﬁ t into smaller spaces.  Further, many other nontraditional retailers, such as 
pharmacies and dollar stores, have expanded into food retail as well (Sharkey 
and Horel, 2009).  Smaller corner stores and convenience stores that already 
serve areas without access to a supermarket have also expressed interest in 
offering more nutritious foods in their stores (Gittelsohn, 2009).  These stores 
are sometimes unwilling to take the risk of offering these foods when there is 
uncertainty about whether they can sell enough of them (Gittelsohn, 2009).  

===== PAGE 114 =====
104
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
There are many other examples of grocery stores that have opened stores or 
expanded service in underserved areas (see, for example, Food Marketing 
Institute, 1998).    
As explained in Chapter 6, both cost factors for food retailers and demand 
factors for consumers may leave some areas underserved by food retail 
stores or types of food retail stores.  If cost factors keep food retailers from 
developing new stores or expanding services in existing stores (e.g., if ﬁ xed 
costs of obtaining land and permits for building a new store are higher in 
these areas), then efforts to reduce these costs or to subsidize development of 
new or expanded stores may be effective policy solutions.   
Many localities and some States have utilized a number of methods to entice 
new stores to open in these areas or to improve existing stores.  These efforts 
range from ﬁ nancing for new large-scale supermarkets, to small incentives 
offered to existing stores to stock healthier foods, such as gift cards at fruit 
and vegetable wholesalers.  This section highlights a few of these efforts.  
Previously published studies provide very good detail about the potential 
beneﬁ ts and the hurdles of different approaches and the strategies that can 
be used to ensure successful store development (Policy Link, 2007; Food 
Map 8.1
Locations of new or planned foodstores in Philadelphia 
through Pennsylvania Fresh Food Financing Initiative
Blue areas represent the areas of greatest need, which have low 
supermarket sales, low income, and high rates of deaths due to 
diet-related diseases.  The orange dots represent stores that have 
been opened under the Pennsylvania Fresh Food Financing Initiative.  
The yellow dots represent stores funded by the program that are 
under construction. 
Source:  Figure provided courtesy of Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and 
The Food Trust, http://www.rwjf.org/files/newsroom/profiles/foodtrust/

===== PAGE 115 =====
105
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Marketing Institute, 1998).  Less has been published about the potential 
drawbacks of these approaches.  Two examples of potential drawbacks 
that have not been explored are the use of tax revenues to encourage 
grocery stores when other uses of the revenues could be more beneﬁ cial to 
low-income areas or the degree to which changes in competition faced by 
existing stores could affect the local market.  
One program to encourage development of new supermarkets or other 
grocery stores in underserved areas is the Pennsylvania Fresh Food Financing 
Initiative.  This program provides grants of up to $250,000 or loans of up 
to $2.5 million per store when the infrastructure costs or credit needed 
to develop a new store in an underserved market are not available.  The 
initiative is a public-private partnership involving the State of Pennsylvania, 
The Food Trust, the Greater Philadelphia Urban Affairs Coalition, and the 
Reinvestment Fund (TRF).  The State appropriated $30 million and TRF 
gave $90 million for the program.  Thus far, $41.8 million in grants and loans 
have funded 58 stores and 1.4 million square feet of retail space (Weidman, 
2009).  Figure 8.1 shows the location of new or planned foodstores in 
Philadelphia funded through this partnership.  A study to evaluate the 
impact of the opening of a large supermarket in one underserved area in 
Pennsylvania is underway.  Illinois, Louisiana, New Jersey, and New York 
are also currently considering similar funding programs.    
A number of Federal ﬁ nancing and incentive programs have been used 
to encourage new store development.  These programs exist primarily to 
spur community development (not just supermarket development) in areas 
that lack mainstream investment (Federal Reserve System and Brookings 
Institution, 2008).  The services provided through these programs include 
grants and low-interest ﬁ nancing, tax incentives, and training or technical 
assistance in community development.  The programs have varying goals, 
including improving labor market opportunities and housing options and 
spurring development in low-income areas.  Often, they include ﬁ nancing or 
cooperation with State and local governments.  Examples of these programs 
include New Market Tax Credits, Community Development Block Grants 
(CDBG), the Empowerment Zone Program, the Environmental Protection 
Agency’s Brownﬁ eld program, and the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development’s Section 108 Loan program.  For examples of how these 
programs have been leveraged to improve food availability in communities, 
see Policy Link (2007).45   
Improvements to already existing stores have also been used to address 
food accessibility in underserved areas.  Modiﬁ cations to such existing 
stores include increasing the availability of nutritious food, decreasing the 
availability of less healthy food, changing the relative prices of both of 
these types of foods, or changing the physical layout of foods within stores 
(Gittelsohn, 2009).   These improvements are at a smaller scale than new 
store development, and, thus, can be less time consuming and much less 
expensive.  Store improvements such as these have been applied in a number 
of settings (e.g., Baltimore Healthy Stores, Apache Healthy Stores, tiendas in 
North Carolina and California).  
New York City has recently implemented a program to improve food 
offerings within small stores or bodegas throughout the city, which are 
 
45This chapter also discusses the 
CDBG program in considering housing 
policy options.  

===== PAGE 116 =====
106
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
often much more plentiful and convenient in underserved communities 
than large grocery stores or supermarkets.  The Healthy Bodega Initiative 
recruited bodegas to increase their offerings of low-fat milk and, eventually, 
fruits and vegetables.  The city also provided promotional and educational 
materials to entice consumers to purchase the new offerings and to encourage 
bodegas to participate.  About 1,000 bodegas were recruited for the low-fat 
milk campaign, and 450 bodegas were recruited for the fruit and vegetable 
campaign.  Participating bodegas experienced increases in sales of low-fat 
milk and of fruits and vegetables (Nonas, 2009).  
The changes in the WIC food packages currently being implemented in 
States may have an impact on the feasibility of increasing nutritious food 
options in small grocery stores and corner stores.  The new food packages 
include greater incentives to purchase low-fat milk and whole grains, and 
vouchers for purchasing fruits and vegetables.  Each State is required to 
adopt the new food packages by October 2009.  The new food packages 
may provide increased and steady demand for these foods in stores in 
neighborhoods with high concentrations of WIC participants and may 
encourage operators of small stores to offer healthier food options.  A pilot 
program implemented in New York State showed that the vegetable and fruit 
vouchers were popular among stores that accepted the WIC vouchers (New 
York State Department of Health, 2007).  
During the 1990s, USDA’s Food and Nutrition Service pursued a research 
agenda to address questions about food access among SNAP participants 
and other low-income households (see Chapter 5).  The agency concurrently 
implemented three projects to identify strategies for improving access in 
underserved areas.  Activities included a conference with experts who 
shared their ideas for increasing food access among low-income Americans 
(Koralek, 1996), along with two studies.  The studies examined successful 
supermarkets in low-income, inner-city communities (O’Connor and Abell, 
1992) and identiﬁ ed widely used means to improve consumer food access in 
underserved neighborhoods (CRP, 1998).  
Two key themes emerged from the conference and were reinforced by the 
two descriptive studies: 
• Proximity to a supermarket is generally regarded as critical to ensuring 
access to a variety of reasonably priced foods. 
• There are desirable alternatives to traditional supermarkets as a means of 
ensuring food access.
The conference focused on bringing supermarkets to low-income 
communities through careful, cooperative planning and troubleshooting 
that starts with sound market research (Koralek, 1996).  Adequate funding 
was identiﬁ ed as a key issue, and several private and public sources of 
support were discussed.  These sources ranged from commercial banks with 
community development subsidiaries to grant and loan programs sponsored 
by Federal agencies. Participants in the conference, as well as ﬁ ndings 
from an FNS study (O’Connor & Abell, 1992), emphasized the importance 
of community buy-in for supermarket development.  Introduction of a 
supermarket not only provides new products and services but also creates 

===== PAGE 117 =====
107
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
jobs and helps to keep money in the community.  These points can be used 
to obtain support from a mayor or city council when it comes to handling 
zoning, tax, and other issues.  Buy-in from consumers will affect the ultimate 
success of the business, so matters of location, preferred store type, and other 
consumer interests should be addressed up front.
Desirable alternatives to traditional supermarkets include food cooperatives, 
urban agriculture, farmers’ markets, public markets, smaller independent 
stores, and transportation hubs.  Each has its own challenges but can 
contribute to a community’s capacity to provide its own food.  
Community-Level Interventions
Another type of intervention to increase the availability of healthy foods is 
through community-level programs, such as farmers’ markets, community 
gardens, or mobile carts or trucks that sell fruits and vegetables.  These 
options for improving the food environment are often less expensive, require 
less space, and can be quicker to implement than programs that encourage 
new store development.  These programs typically operate on a more limited 
scale (e.g., seasonally or only 1 day a week) or in the case of community 
gardens can require large time commitments on the part of consumers.  The 
goal of these interventions is to give consumers more options for purchasing 
nutritious food by increasing the supply of these foods.  Often these 
interventions include nutrition and food education components or incentives 
to consumers to increase demand for nutritious food.  
There are many, many examples of farmers’ markets, community gardens, 
mobile carts, or other similar community-level interventions implemented 
in underserved areas.  This analysis cannot cover them all but highlights 
an example from New York City as one of the more comprehensive plans 
that has been implemented.  Also discussed is the use of SNAP beneﬁ ts at 
farmers’ markets, as it involves a component of the largest U.S. food and 
nutrition assistance program and could potentially be a lever with which the 
Federal efforts could increase access.  
In addition to the Healthy Bodegas initiative, the City of New York has 
implemented two other community-level initiatives to increase access to 
fruits and vegetables.  One initiative is to increase the number of farmers’ 
markets in underserved neighborhoods and increase their use by residents 
through the Health Bucks program.  The Health Bucks program offers $2 
coupons for the purchase of fresh fruits and vegetables at participating 
farmers’ markets.  Health Bucks were used as a tool to introduce consumers 
to farmers’ markets, generating business for producers and helping reduce 
food access barriers for consumers.  The program was expanded speciﬁ cally 
for SNAP participants, with an additional $2 Health Buck offered for every 
$5 spent using EBT at the farmers’ market.  Through this program, EBT 
sales at farmers’ markets more than doubled from $40,000 in 2007 to over 
$89,000 in 2008 (Nonas, 2009).  The program is being expanded into upstate 
New York as the Fresh Bucks program.  
In addition to the farmers’ market and Health Bucks program, the city is also 
in the process of implementing a “Green Cart” program, which is intended 
to increase the number of mobile carts that sell fresh produce, especially 

===== PAGE 118 =====
108
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
in underserved areas.  Green Cart vendors are subject to the same permit 
process as other vendors, except they are restricted to operate in underserved 
areas and sell only fresh produce under the NYC Green Cart umbrella.  The 
program is still recruiting vendors, a process that has been more difﬁ cult 
than expected (Nonas, 2009).  To aid in the recruitment process, private 
foundation grants are being used to offer low-cost microloans to ﬁ nance carts 
for vendors.  
Another mechanism to increase use of farmers’ markets among underserved 
communities and populations is through SNAP.  The percent of SNAP-
authorized stores comprised of farmers’ markets has been consistently low. 
With widespread implementation of EBT systems during the late 1990s, 
the presence of farmers’ markets among authorized retailers declined.  This 
may be explained by the need for access to electricity in order to use the 
typical point-of-sale EBT equipment.  Over the last several years, however, 
the number of participating farmers’ markets has grown.  In FY 2008, there 
were 753 farmers’ markets authorized to participate in the program, up from 
253 in FY 2000.  Several factors contributed to this increase, including 
the increased popularity of these markets among the general population.  
In addition, FNS has endorsed a number of local and State initiatives to 
provide access to beneﬁ ts through wireless point-of-sale equipment or scrip 
alternatives.  With provisions in the 2008 Farm Bill, USDA’s Agricultural 
Marketing Service  will set aside 10 percent of the approximately $5 million 
in competitive grants funding for FY 2009 for new EBT projects at farmers’ 
markets.
Farmers’ markets and community gardens have sprung up in many places, 
including in underserved areas. There is much knowledge about how such 
programs can successfully operate and become sustainable for long periods 
(see, for example, Fisher, 2009 and Smiley, 2009).  There are often beneﬁ ts 
of the programs that are harder to measure, such as increasing community 
and social capital or keeping ethnic and minority populations in touch with 
their cultural culinary heritage.  The programs can also serve as educational 
opportunities for teaching about horticulture, nutrition, and farming and 
growing practices.  There is, however, little evaluation of their effectiveness 
in terms of changing shopping behavior, diet, and diet-related outcomes for 
consumers.  
Transportation-Related Improvements
In contrast to bringing the stores to people, an alternative approach is to 
bring the people to the stores.  Programs that improve public transportation 
routes from areas with limited access or provide transportation subsidies to 
low-income individuals or subsidized supermarket shuttle services could be 
effective ways to reduce access problems.  Transportation improvements 
such as these have some advantages, depending on characteristics of the 
areas.  First, as the analysis in Chapter 2 showed, supermarket access 
may also be a problem for low-income people who live outside of low 
income areas.  In cases where those with access problems are dispersed, 
transportation interventions may be more efﬁ cient than new store 
development since targeting an area for a store to locate to reduce access 
problems for this group would be difﬁ cult (relative to areas where there are 
high concentrations of low-income people with access problems).  If public 

===== PAGE 119 =====
109
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
transportation in the area already exists, it may not be too expensive or take 
as much time to change or add routes that could be used to improve access 
to stores.  A transportation subsidy given to those with limited access may 
enable consumers to access foodstores that better ﬁ t their budgets.  Such 
improvements could also help consumers access other services that may be 
lacking in their area (such as banks or health care providers).    
Using the NFSPS survey data and data from the Louisiana Neighborhood 
Environment and Consumption Survey (LANECS), Rose et al. (2009) 
estimated travel costs for different transportation modes and across areas in 
New Orleans that had poor or good access to supermarkets.  This exploratory 
exercise considered both out-of-pocket travel costs and time costs for the 
different travel options for grocery shopping.46 
Not surprisingly, a taxi was the most expensive option ($66.60 per month), 
while a bus was $38.70, a ride from a friend or relative was $21.90, and 
walking was $21.00.47  Driving one’s own car was the least expensive 
method for getting to the store ($5.90 per month).  The study also considered 
differences in time costs for New Orleans residents living in areas with poor 
access to supermarkets (deﬁ ned as census tracts more than 2 kilometers from 
a supermarket), compared with the time costs for those living in areas with 
good access (deﬁ ned as census tracts within 2 kilometers of a supermarket) 
(Rose et al., 2009).  The average difference in travel cost between areas with 
poor access and areas with good access was $10.58 per month—meaning 
that SNAP participants in poor-access areas of New Orleans had total travel 
costs (both time and out-of-pocket costs) that were on average (across mode 
of transportation) almost $11 higher than those in areas in New Orleans with 
good access.  
To improve access to supermarkets for low-income households, a 
transportation beneﬁ t in conjunction with SNAP beneﬁ ts for participants 
who do not own cars and who have poor access to a supermarket could be 
considered (provided a satisfactory method for assessing access levels for 
participants is already available and could be implemented).  SNAP beneﬁ ts 
for people who live in areas with poor access could include a transportation 
subsidy (on top of the food beneﬁ t) that could be used to compensate for 
out-of-pocket costs to getting to a supermarket.  For example, the city of 
Madison, WI, recently proposed to offer monthly bus passes at a discounted 
rate of $27.50 (originally $55) to people eligible for SNAP (Rose, 2009).48  ). 
Another option could be to deduct transportation costs from total income for 
applicants with limited access to supermarkets, which would effectively give 
a larger beneﬁ t to these households (Rose et al., 2009).49  
Further exploration into the feasibility and costs and possible reactions of 
consumers to such transportation interventions is needed.  If better public 
transportation options are made available, it would be useful to project how 
many people would use them.  If transportation costs are deducted from 
income for SNAP applicants, it would also be useful to know the percentage 
of participants who would use their additional beneﬁ ts to access better stores 
and more nutritious food, or who would simply buy more of the same foods 
from the same stores. 
 
46The time cost estimates use the 
hourly minimum wage to value time.  
See table 5 in Rose et al., 2009, for 
details. 
 
47Costs are to the nearest 
supermarket by mode of transport 
based on approach by Feather, 2003.  
Costs for each mode were weighted 
using the distributional data on the 
mode of transportation. 
 
48The program is partially intended 
to offset the effect of an increase in 
fares on low-income individuals. 
 
49This would not increase beneﬁ ts 
for households that already receive the 
maximum beneﬁ t.

===== PAGE 120 =====
110
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
SNAP Retailer Policy
Retailers authorized to participate in SNAP must sell staple foods for home 
preparation and consumption.  In addition, the store must offer for sale, on a 
continuous basis, three different varieties of foods in each of four staple food 
categories, with perishable foods in at least two categories; or have more than 
50 percent of total gross sales in staple foods.  Most stores are authorized 
under criterion a.  A store technically can meet this criterion with a small 
number of items that meet the variety and perishable requirements.
As part of an overall review of existing regulations, USDA will review the 
current provisions for retailer depth of stock.  The goal remains to balance 
access to a sufﬁ cient number of neighborhood stores with availability of a 
continuous supply of required foods.
There is some previous research on the relative tradeoffs of restricting small 
stores from SNAP authorization and from increasing access to large grocery 
stores or supermarkets (Feather, 2003).  At the time of the study, (pre-EBT 
card implementation), there was concern about the amount of fraud in 
small stores authorized to receive SNAP beneﬁ ts.  The study, which valued 
and compared the beneﬁ ts (costs) of restricting access for small stores and 
increasing access to large stores for participants, showed that access to a 
new store would result in a gain of $2.78 to $7.76 per participant, per month, 
depending on store location in relation to the participant location and the 
value of the cost of travel time.  On the other hand, the loss to participants 
of restricting store access to only supermarkets and large grocery stores was 
estimated between $4.16 and $8.78 per participant, per month.  
Housing and Community Development-Related Policy
State and local governments make most of the zoning and land-use planning 
decisions that determine the relationship of residential to commercial land 
uses.  Yet, research shows many planners do not actively or systematically 
plan their communities’ food access the way they plan access to services and 
facilities like transportation, parks, hospitals, or schools (Pothukuchi and 
Kaufman, 2000).
Some planning by units of local government is in direct response to Federal 
mandates and can be inﬂ uenced by shifts in Federal policy.  For example, 
when developing or rehabilitating public housing, public housing agencies 
are required by Federal regulation to choose sites that are accessible to 
commercial services.  Chapter 3 of this study ﬁ nds segregated, low-income 
areas are more likely to lack adequate food access than other areas.  The 
characteristics of those areas are consistent with those of areas having 
large public housing developments, though further study is necessary to 
establish any potential links between low-access and public housing.  If 
public housing and low-access are linked, the U.S. Department of Housing 
and Urban Development has existing regulatory authority to require future 
developments be sited closer to opportunities to access healthy food.
Another example of a Federal opportunity to encourage local governments 
to plan for communities’ food access is the Community Development Block 
Grant program.  Federal regulations speciﬁ cally lay out the following goals: 

===== PAGE 121 =====
111
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
increased access to quality public and private facilities and services, and 
access to capital and credit for development activities that promote the long-
term economic and social viability of the community.  Communities could 
be encouraged to incorporate healthy food systems planning in the required 
Consolidated Plans they submit that lay out their plans for the use of grant 
funds.  
No changes to Federal rules governing programs like public housing and 
Community Development Block Grants would be needed to encourage food 
systems planning at the local level.  Encouraging local governments to plan 
does not dictate speciﬁ c policies, but instead allows communities to devise 
solutions speciﬁ cally tailored to the community.
Anti-Poverty Policy
Chapter 3 provided analysis of the factors correlated with whether an area 
has limited access to affordable and nutritious food.  Findings showed 
that some household characteristics are associated with greater risk of low 
access.  Household characteristics such as low educational attainment, low 
employment levels, and reliance on public assistance were found to be 
the most inﬂ uential determinants (in addition to low-income, upon which 
the analysis was conditioned).  Federal anti-poverty programs, such as the 
Earned Income Tax Credit, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families; 
and food and nutrition assistance programs, such as SNAP, WIC, and the 
school meal programs are targeted to households with these characteristics. 
These programs often have goals to encourage and support employment 
and to offer income support, food, and better nutrition.  Thus, some of the 
populations for which a food access policy intervention may be targeted 
already receive public assistance from these general anti-poverty programs.  
If these programs are successful in raising incomes, employment prospects, 
and educational opportunities, then low-income populations may be able to 
access better foods as well.  
Summary
This chapter outlined the types of policy options that could be considered 
to reduce the effects of limited access to affordable and nutritious foods.  A 
formal evaluation of the beneﬁ ts and costs of these policy interventions was 
beyond the scope of this study.  There are, however, some broad overarching 
guidelines to consider if future policy interventions are needed.  
The analysis in chapter 2 shows that the number of people that are likely 
affected by limited access is small.  Further, data on shopping patterns 
and prices actually paid show that many, but perhaps not all, low-income 
consumers have strategies for ﬁ nding stores that offer the products they want 
at lower prices.  Both of these ﬁ ndings suggest that a large-scale, national-
level program may have difﬁ culty addressing what are likely to be quite 
localized pockets of limited access.   
The analysis in Chapter 2 and from other studies (Sparks et al., 2009; 
Apparicio et al., 2007) also shows food access may be a problem for some 
low-income families who live outside of areas with high concentrations of 
poverty.  This observation is also important for policy considerations because 

===== PAGE 122 =====
112
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
the type of intervention that may be effective in areas with concentrated 
poverty are probably different than the type of interventions that may 
be effective if the population with limited access is more geographically 
dispersed.  For example, improving existing stores or enticing new stores 
or farmers’ markets to areas where the population with limited access is 
concentrated may be an effective solution.  On the other hand, if those 
who lack access are more dispersed, it may be more effective to improve 
transportation options or provide transportation subsidies for this population 
to travel to stores rather than encouraging new stores.  
It is difﬁ cult to discern the degree to which supply-side and demand-side 
factors contribute to differences in store access (Bitler and Haider, 2009).  
Yet, making this determination is critical for understanding the types of 
policy interventions that may be needed.  
On the demand side, the key question is if better access to affordable and 
nutritious food is provided, will people buy these foods?  Evidence is mixed 
(see Cummins, 2005; Wrigley, 2003; Gittelsohn, 2009; Ayala et al., 2009).  
These studies show small increases or no changes in consumption of healthy 
foods in areas where access was improved.  Related evidence suggests 
that price subsidies for fruits and vegetables can increase consumption 
of these foods for low-income consumers in general, but the effects are 
small and consumption is still below recommended levels (Dong and Lin, 
2009).  It is possible that demand for more nutritious foods like fruits and 
vegetables may also be driven by the time costs associated with preparing 
and cooking them, especially considering the relative convenience and price 
of alternative sources of foods.  It is also possible that some consumers 
may not know the nutritional beneﬁ ts of such foods.  Some may also lack 
familiarity with preparation and the taste of these foods.  If either of these is 
true, then increasing access through supply-side factors alone (e.g., enticing 
new stores) will not change food purchasing and dietary habits.  A public 
health campaign to promote healthier eating and cooking habits may be 
more effective.  Or, a program that gives low-income consumers incentives 
to purchase more fruits and vegetables, such as the Healthy Incentive Pilot 
that is being planned by FNS, could be more effective in increasing demand 
for these foods.  If the time-cost tradeoffs are the major determinants behind 
lower demand, then such products as already-cut-and-cleaned fruits and 
vegetables or healthier prepared food options may be useful.  There are 
usually price premiums for these prepackaged alternatives, however.   
If supply-side factors, such as high ﬁ xed costs for new store development 
in low-income areas or restrictive zoning policies, are an obstacle for larger 
food retailers, then local policies toward zoning or government programs 
(at the Federal, State, or local level) that subsidize these costs for stores 
may be effective.  There is some evidence that overall operating costs of 
stores serving low-income consumers are similar to those of other stores 
(King et al., 2004).  But it is still possible that high ﬁ xed costs (as opposed 
to operating costs) could be barriers to entry for stores trying to locate in 
underserved areas.   
Either of these demand or supply factors could be a market failure—that is, 
the market is not operating efﬁ ciently such that a government intervention 
could make the market operate more efﬁ ciently in a way that everyone 

===== PAGE 123 =====
113
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
beneﬁ ts. But again, there is not enough information to tell if there is a market 
failure on either the demand or supply side (see Bitler and Haider (2009) for 
a more complete discussion).  
It is also important to differentiate between general issues faced by 
low-income neighborhoods and only those relevant to the supply of healthy 
foods.  Many low-income neighborhoods may also lack access to banking 
services, health care services, and well-functioning public schools (Federal 
Reserve Bank and Brookings Institute, 2008).  A supermarket can be a 
politically popular development for a low-income neighborhood because 
it provides for a most fundamental need—food (Rose et al., 2009).  On 
the other hand, other services and businesses may be more important for a 
community (Bitler and Haider, 2009).
Chapter 4 summarized research on the effects of interventions on food 
shopping and consumption of speciﬁ c foods.  Given the rather modest 
ﬁ ndings, it is important to have realistic expectations about the potential 
effects of policy interventions on diet and, particularly, on more distal 
outcomes such as high BMI, obesity, and diet-related diseases.  More 
proximate outcomes, such as shopping patterns and food intake, are more 
likely to be affected by any policy to increase access than more distal 
outcomes like obesity because there are so many other factors that contribute 
to obesity and because increased consumption of healthy foods may not lead 
to weight loss.    
Given the lack of understanding about the actual causes of differences in 
access to food, it is tenuous to consider large-scale, national-level policy 
interventions.  One possible approach, however, is to fund a number 
of demonstration projects throughout the country that use different 
approaches to reducing the effects of limited access to food.  Projects could 
be appropriately tailored to ﬁ t the access issues facing a community—
considering the speciﬁ c needs of low-income people and the communities 
in which they live.  The projects funded could vary in size and scope as 
appropriate—for example, incentives for the development of large-scale 
supermarkets or smaller projects like the Community Foods Projects that 
are already underway.  Some of the demonstrations could operate through 
SNAP—for example, a transportation beneﬁ t for SNAP participants or a 
deduction of transportation costs for participants in determining beneﬁ t levels 
could be implemented in a variety of settings.  Expansions to programs that 
focus on broader community development goals besides attracting food 
retailers could also be considered (such as CDBGs or New Market Tax 
Credits).   
Regardless of the types of projects that may be considered, an important 
component of the projects should include formal evaluations of the 
beneﬁ ts and costs of interventions.  In some cases, randomized trials could 
conceivably be conducted; for example, transportation subsidies could be 
randomly assigned to SNAP participants who face access barriers.  In other 
cases, this kind of evaluation would not be possible.  Instead, the collection 
of longitudinal data on changes in shopping behavior or dietary intake 
(or whatever the desired outcome change is) for affected populations is 
important.  Also important to consider are opportunities to conduct natural 
experiments or quasi-experimental designs in which comparison areas 

===== PAGE 124 =====
114
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
or populations are used as a benchmark control to the intervention area 
or population.  It may also be possible to tailor interventions speciﬁ cally 
to people who already have diet-related diseases and who have difﬁ culty 
accessing foods they need to manage their diseases.  For example, diabetes 
patients under clinical care could be randomly assigned coupons for farmers’ 
markets or coupons for healthy options at supermarkets to determine if 
increasing access was an effective way to manage the disease.    
Chapter 4 and Rose et al, (2009) raised the possibility that food swamps and 
not food deserts may be more of a factor in BMI and obesity concerns.  If 
it is the case that energy-dense foods are too easily accessed, then policy 
interventions may need to reduce the incentive to eat less healthful foods 
or reduce access to these foods.  This could be much more difﬁ cult because 
even stores stocking the healthiest of options also stock the least healthy 
options.  Taxing less healthy foods (e.g., soda or sweetened beverages) is 
one example of such a policy, but these taxes inherently have distributional 
tradeoffs that must also be considered.  
References
Apparicio, P., M. Cloutier, R. Shearmur (2007).  The Case of Montreal’s 
Missing Food Deserts:  Evidence of Accessibility to Food Supermarkets,” 
International Journal of Health Geographics, 6(1), 4.  
Ayala, G.X., B. Baquero, L. Linnan, B.A. Laraia, and P. Bloom (2009).  
“Working With Tiendas to Promote Healthy Eating,” Presentation at the 
IOM/NRC Workshop on the Public Health Effects of Food Deserts, January 
27, Washington, DC.Bitler, M., and S. Haider (2009).  “An Economic View 
of Food Deserts in the United States,” National Poverty Center Working 
Paper, http://www.npc.umich.edu/news/events/food-access/index.php   
CRP Incorporated (1998). A Study of Access to Nutritious and Affordable 
Food, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, April.
Cummins S, A. Findlay, M. Petticrew, and L. Sparks (2005). “Healthy Cities: 
The Impact of Food Retail-Led Regeneration on Food Access, Choice and 
Retail Structure,” Built Environ 31(4):  288-301.
Dong, D., and B.H. Lin (2009). Fruit and Vegetable Consumption by 
Low-Income Americans: Would a Price Reduction Make a Difference? 
Economic Research Report No. 70, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
Economic Research Service, January.
Feather, P.M. (2003).  “Valuing Food Store Access:  Policy Implications for 
the Food Stamp Program,” American Journal of Agricultural Economics, 
Vol. 85(1): 162-172.  
Federal Reserve System, and the Brookings Institution (2008).  The 
Enduring Challenge of Concentrated Poverty in America:  Case Studies 
from Communities Across the U.S., A Joint Project of the Community 
Affairs Ofﬁ ces of the Federal Reserve System and The Metropolitan Policy 
Program at The Brookings Institution, Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond:  
Richmond, VA.  

===== PAGE 125 =====
115
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Fisher, A. (2009).  “Community Level Food Environment” Presentation 
at the IOM/NRC Workshop on the Public Health Effects of Food Deserts, 
January 27, Washington, DC.
Food Marketing Institute (1998).  Urban Supermarkets, Food Marketing 
Institute. 
FNS-314 (2000).  Together We Can!  A What, Why and How Handbook 
for Working to End Hunger in Your Community, U.S. Department of 
Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, January.
FNS-315 (2000).  The National Nutrition Safety Net: Tools for Community 
Food Security, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, 
January. 
Gittlesohn, J. (2009).  “Overview of Efforts to Change the Food 
Environment,” Presentation at the IOM/NRC Workshop on the Public Health 
Effects of Food Deserts, January 27, Washington, DC.
King, Robert P., Ephraim S. Leibtag, and Ajay S. Behl (2004).  Supermarket 
Characteristics and Operating Costs in Low-Income Areas, Agricultural 
Economic Report No. 839, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Economic 
Research Service.  
Koralek, R.D. (1996). Conference on Access to Food September 18 and 
19, 1995. U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, 
November.
Leibtag, E. (2006).  “The Impact of Big-Box Stores on Retail Food Prices 
and the Consumer Price Index,” Economic Research Report No. 33, U.S 
Department of Agriculture, Economic Research Service.  
New York State Department of Health (2007).  New York State WIC 
Program 2006 Vegetable and Fruit Demonstration Project, Bureau of 
Supplemental Food Programs Food Delivery Systems Unit, Division of 
Nutrition, Albany, NY.  
Nonas, C. (2009).  “New York City: Healthy Food Access,” Presentation 
at the IOM/NRC Workshop on the Public Health Effects of Food Deserts, 
January 27, Washington, DC.
O’Connor, J.J., and B. Abell (1992). Successful Supermarkets in Low-Income 
Inner Cities, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, 
August.
Policy Link, and LISC Bay Area (2007).  Grocery Store Attraction 
Strategies, http://www.policylink.org/documents/groceryattraction_ﬁ nal.pdf 
Pothukuchi, K., and J. L. Kaufman (2000). “Longer View: The Food System: 
A Stranger to the Planning Field,” Journal of the American Planning 
Association, Vol. 66, Part 2.

===== PAGE 126 =====
116
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Rose, D. (2009). “Discount Bus Passes Proposed,” Wisconsin State Journal, 
Friday, February 20, http://www.madison.com/wsj/home/local//index.
php?ntid=431881 
Rose, D., J.N. Bodor, C.M. Swalm, J.C. Rice, T.A. Fraley, and P.L. 
Hutchinson (2009). “Deserts in New Orleans? Illustrations of Urban Food 
Access and Implications for Policy,” National Poverty Center Working 
Paper,  http://www.npc.umich.edu/news/events/food-access/index.php 
Sharkey, J., and S. Horel (2009).  “Characteristics of Potential Spatial Access 
to a Variety of Fruits and Vegetables in a Large Rural Area,” National 
Poverty Center Working Paper, http://www.npc.umich.edu/news/events/
food-access/index.php 
Smiley, A. (2009).  Title Presentation at the IOM/NRC Workshop on the 
Public Health Effects of Food Deserts, January 27, Washington, DC.
Sparks, A., Bania, N., and L. Leete (2009).  “Finding Food Deserts: 
Methodology and Measurement of Food Access in Portland, OR,” National 
Poverty Center Working Paper, http://www.npc.umich.edu/news/events/
food-access/index.php 
Weidman, J. (2009).  “Improving Access to Nutritious Food,” Presentation 
at the IOM/NRC Workshop on the Public Health Effects of Food Deserts, 
January 27, Washington, DC.
Wrigley, N., D. Warm and B.Margetts (2003).  “Deprivation, Diet, and 
Food-Retail Access: Findings From the Leeds “Food Deserts” Study,” 
Environment and Planning A 35: 151-188.

===== PAGE 127 =====
117
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
CHAPTER 9
Future Research Needs
Progress has been made in characterizing the problem of food deserts and 
in describing their consequences for affected populations.  Many aspects 
of food deserts, however, are not well deﬁ ned or understood.  This chapter 
outlines future research needs for each of these aspects of food deserts.  It 
ﬁ rst focuses on conceptual and measurement issues of food access.  These 
were discussed in greater detail in Chapters 1 and 2.  Next, it considers the 
research issues for determining the causes of limited access, which were 
discussed in Chapter 6.  Finally, it highlights future research considerations 
for understanding the economic and health consequences of limited access.  
Conceptualizing and Measuring Food Access 
and the Food Environment
A variety of concepts and methods have been used to measure access to 
affordable and nutritious food.  But because of the breadth of sources of both 
nutritious and less nutritious foods and the complexity with which consumers 
make choices about where to shop, what to eat, and how much time to devote 
to these and other food-related activities, it is very difﬁ cult to fully measure 
and characterize food access for consumers.
Existing studies almost exclusively consider access to stores from 
consumers’ homes and ignore the potential access to food that consumers 
have because they travel to school, work, or other activities.  Future research 
should consider how people ﬁ t grocery and food shopping into their daily 
activities and travel patterns.  It will also be important to consider how these 
activities and patterns expose people to food environments outside of their 
neighborhoods and how this may affect their shopping and diet.     
Most of the research that has been conducted focuses on an area-based 
concept of access.  Area-based concepts are important because cross-
sectional evidence suggests that the food and neighborhood environment has 
a strong correlation to food intake and to some diet-related health outcomes 
and because individual factors alone cannot explain all the differences in 
diet and health.  The ﬁ ndings from the national- level assessment of access 
to supermarkets and the discussion in Chapter 1 suggest that an individual-
based concept of access may be as important.  That is, some low-income 
people do not live in areas with concentrated poverty, but still may lack the 
resources or transportation to access affordable food.  Further clariﬁ cation 
of both individual measures of access and area measures of access is needed.  
Studies that offer both types of measures could be useful.  For example, 
it would be useful to understand the degree to which individuals who 
report access limitations (such as those in the Current Population Survey-
Food Security Supplement CPS-FSS) live in areas that may be considered 
low-access areas.    
It is clear from the research that some areas and individuals have relatively 
less access to some food retailers than other areas and individuals.  This is 
useful information which highlights issues of equity and areas where policy 

===== PAGE 128 =====
118
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
interventions or private store development may be targeted.  But it is not 
clear whether these relative deprivations in access to food constitute an 
absolute inadequacy of access to food.  That is, just knowing that an area has 
less access to food than another area may not be enough to say that access is 
inadequate and thus, whether policy-interventions may be necessary.  This 
is not to say that there are no areas where access is inadequate.  Rather, 
such a designation has not yet been systematically considered to make such 
judgments.  Further conceptual clariﬁ cation of the adequacy of food access is 
needed in order to do so.   
Actually measuring food access, even when the key conceptual constructs are 
well-deﬁ ned, will require a great deal more data.  National-level assessments, 
such as those conducted in Chapter 2, are important for monitoring broad 
characteristics of the food environment in the U.S.  The use of supermarkets 
and large grocery stores as proxy measures of the availability of affordable 
and nutritious food is a feasible way to operationalize a measure of access 
on a broad national scale.  Such stores typically offer competitive prices 
and have greater variety of foods.  But examining only large supermarkets 
and grocery stores inevitably understates the sources of food available 
to consumers, since food is available from many other retailers and from 
restaurants and because consumers do not limit their food shopping to stores 
near their homes.   Thus, national-level assessments can only go so far.  
It may be more feasible to collect indepth information on food availability, 
prices, and consumer shopping and travel behavior systematically across 
a few local areas so that concepts and measures of access can be further 
deﬁ ned and studied.  Tools like the Nutrition Environment Measures Survey 
and indepth studies that have included complete enumeration of stores in 
an area and even collected information on the contents of shelves of stores 
within an area (for example, Rose et al., 2009; Sharkey and Horel, 2009) 
could be used.  Surveys of individual consumers’ food shopping, preparation, 
and consumption patterns could be a part of such studies.  Such surveys 
may also include questions of access limitations like those collected in the 
CPS-FSS or the National Food Stamp Participant Survey.  
It would also help to know the prices of goods because while some goods 
may be available, their prices may be so high that they are not reasonably 
affordable.  Data collected by the Bureau of Labor Statistics to compute the 
Consumer Price Index, or data from Nielsen’s Homescan panel could be 
linked to food availability data (Bitler and Haider, 2009).   
On a national level, it may be more feasible to use direct questions about 
food access and the food environment to understand the extent of the 
problem.  Questions on whether households had enough to eat and if 
not, why, that were once a part of the Current Population Survey’s Food 
Security Supplement could again be included on the annual survey.  These 
questions may need to be modiﬁ ed to elicit more information about access 
limitations.  But they could be useful in monitoring changes and trends in 
the number of Americans affected by limited access to food sources on a 
national level.  The NFSPS is another model for collection of individual 
level measures of access to food.  This survey collected much more extensive 
data on consumer shopping behavior and data on modes of travel to stores, 
travel times and distances, types of foods purchased, and consumer opinions 

===== PAGE 129 =====
119
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
about food shopping options.  Other surveys of individuals and households 
could consider asking more questions about food shopping and consumption 
behavior, including questions on the kinds of stores at which major shopping 
is conducted, the distance to the stores and the time and costs required to 
reach them, and the modes of transportation used to get the stores.  National-
level surveys such as the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 
(NHANES) or the Consumer Expenditures Survey could be used for this 
purpose.  NHANES also collects food intake data and information on BMI 
and other diet-related health outcomes for individuals and could be used 
to better understand the economic and health consequences of food access 
(a point discuss later in this chapter).  Individual questions of mobility 
limitations (e.g., for the elderly or disabled) could also be considered.  
Understanding the Causes of Limited Access
It is possible that supply-side factors, such as the costs ﬁ rms face to open 
new stores, or demand-side factors, such as a lack of information about the 
health beneﬁ ts of some foods, or both could lead to variation in access across 
areas and in the types of retailers or types of foods sold in areas.  Future 
studies should consider how supply or demand factors differ across areas in 
ways that could lead to differences in access to food retailers and restaurants.  
There is some research on the cost factors affecting food retailers (King et 
al., 2004).  The operating costs of supermarkets that serve relatively larger 
portions of low-income consumers are not greater than those that serve fewer 
low-income consumers, but it is not clear if there may be differences in ﬁ xed 
costs of developing supermarkets or stocking healthier food alternatives.  In 
a similar way, further exploration into demand-side factors—why consumers 
choose the foods they buy and the stores and restaurants from which they buy 
could also help determine the causes of variation in food access across areas.  
Such studies would require going beyond the usual factors that economic 
studies consider in demand analysis, such as income, education, and price.  
Although data could be difﬁ cult to collect, more information is needed on 
consumer knowledge of nutrition, food preparation, tastes, and variations 
of such across different subpopulations.  Understanding the time, price, and 
nutritional tradeoffs of cooking at home versus eating at restaurants or eating 
prepared meals would also be beneﬁ cial for understanding how some areas 
may be saturated with some types of food outlets but lacking in others.   
Another potential approach to understanding product availability and market 
prices is to apply spatial demand models to food access.  These models 
(Capozza and Van Order, 1978) consider not only the costs for suppliers 
but also the transportation costs for consumers to get to different stores as 
determinants of spatial distribution of stores and prices.  Applying these 
models would require better data on transportation costs to stores (Bitler and 
Haider, 2009).  
Understanding the Economic, Diet, and Health 
Consequences of Limited Access
The causal pathways linking food access to shopping and consumption 
behavior and the effects of these behaviors on diet-related conditions like 
body weight, diabetes, or cardiovascular disease are not well understood.  

===== PAGE 130 =====
120
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Methodological and data improvements could make it possible to go beyond 
cross-sectional relationships to isolate the effects of access, or changes in 
access, on shopping and consumption behavior separately from the effects of 
individual preferences for foods or other goods and services, which also may 
affect shopping and food intake decisions. 
Natural experiments and quasi-experiments, such as the UK studies 
in Glasgow and Leeds, could be conducted in the United States where 
new stores or improved stores become available.  Instrumental variable 
approaches that try to consider the effects of access separately from decisions 
about choices of where to live could also be used to better understand the 
effects of access on shopping, diet, and diet-related health outcomes (see, 
for example, Chen et al., 2009).  Studies that use cross-sectional variation in 
prices of foods, individual characteristics, and neighborhood characteristics 
could help sort out how these factors interact to affect food shopping and 
food intake.  Finally, there is little consideration of the effects of time costs 
on decisions of where to shop for food, what to eat, and where to eat it.  More 
consideration of the time tradeoffs of different consumption and shopping 
choices is needed. 
Cross-sectional data sets like NHANES and the American Time Use 
Survey could be further exploited to uncover the causal links.  Doing so 
may require linking geographical data to the individuals or households in 
these surveys so that aspects of food access and the food environment can 
be linked to food intake or time-use data.50  Localized data on food prices 
from Nielsen is being linked with the NHANES survey by National Center 
for Health Statistics staff and used by ERS staff to better understand how 
price variation affects food consumption decisions.  The 1996 National 
Food Stamp Participant Survey collected a wealth of information on food 
access, food shopping behavior, travel costs and time costs of food shopping, 
and food use (see Chapters 2 and 5).  This survey is over 10 years old.  
An updated version of the survey could be considered to help improve 
understanding of food access issues.  In addition to providing more recent 
data, additional information on food access, food shopping, and food use 
could be collected in an updated round, including complete information 
for both SNAP participants and eligible nonparticipants.  It may also be 
feasible to oversample individuals who live in areas that have low access to 
supermarkets to provide greater sample size to study those who live in areas 
with low access. 
Longitudinal data on both consumer shopping and food intake and on the 
food environment could help tease out the causal pathways between access 
and consumption by linking changes in the food environment to changes in 
shopping or food intake.  Currently, none of the national-level surveys collect 
detailed longitudinal data on consumer shopping or food intake.  Given the 
lack of national longitudinal data on food shopping and food intake, it may 
be more feasible to add questions on intake of a few important foods (e.g., 
the frequency of eating fruits and vegetables or whole grains) to existing 
longitudinal surveys such as the Panel Study of Income Dynamics, the 
National Longitudinal Survey of Adolescent Health, or the Early Childhood 
Longitudinal Surveys.  These longitudinal surveys or others, such as the 
Survey of Income and Program Participation, could also ask basic questions 
 
50The estimates of time spent 
traveling to grocery stores across 
distances from supermarkets in tables 
2.8 and 2.9 used such linked data. 

===== PAGE 131 =====
121
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
of whether households have enough food and if not, why, such as those 
questions that were at one time part of the CPS-FSS.  
In addition to understanding where stores choose to locate, it is also 
important to know why people choose to live where they live.  Economic 
studies have considered the values consumers place on different amenities 
of neighborhoods, such as availability of parks or the quality of public 
schools.  Not much is known about how consumers value such amenities as 
supermarkets or restaurants.  Low-income individuals are more constrained 
in these choices than high-income individuals.  Even less is known about 
how lower income and other subpopulations value different amenities and 
about how social networks may affect location decisions.  Further research 
on residential choice could help further the understanding of how differences 
in income, preferences, and price affect the way consumers sort into areas 
with different levels of access (see Bayer et al., 2004). 
References
Bayer, P.J., R. McMillan, K.S. Rueben (2004).  “An Equilibrium Model 
of Sorting in an Urban Housing Market,” National Bureau of Economic 
Research Working Paper No. W10865.  
Bitler, Marianne, and Steven J. Haider (2009).  “An Economic View of Food 
Deserts in the United States,” National Poverty Center Working Paper, http://
www.npc.umich.edu/news/events/food-access/index.php.  
Capozza, D.R., and R. Van Order (1978).  “A Generalized Model of Spatial 
Competition,” American Economic Review 68(5): 896-908.  
Chen, S.E., R.J.G.M. Florax, and S.D. Snyder (2009).  “Obesity, Fast Food, 
and Grocery Stores: Evidence from Geo-referenced Micro Data,” National 
Poverty Center Working Paper, http://www.npc.umich.edu/news/events/
food-access/index.php 
King, Robert P., Ephraim S. Leibtag, and Ajay S. Behl (2004).  “Supermarket 
Characteristics and Operating Costs in Low-Income areas Areas,” 
Agricultural Economic Report No. 839, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
Economic Research Service.  
Rose, D., J.N. Bodor, C.M. Swalm, J.C. Rice, T.A. Farley, P.L. Hutchinson 
(2009).  “Deserts in New Orleans?  Illustrations of Urban Food Access and 
Implications for Policy,” National Poverty Center Working Paper. http://
www.npc.umich.edu/news/events/food-access/index.php.
Sharkey, J.R. and S. Horel (2009).  “Characteristics of Potential Spatial 
Access to a Variety of Fruits and Vegetables in a Large Rural Area,” 
National Poverty Center Working Paper, http://www.npc.umich.edu/news/
events/food-access/index.php.

===== PAGE 132 =====

===== PAGE 133 =====
123
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Appendix A
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food:  
Understanding Food Deserts
Workshop Agenda
Waugh Auditorium
Economic Research Service
1800 M Street, NW
October 9, 2008   
8:00 – 8:30 
Check-in and continental breakfast
8:30 – 9:00 
Welcome, Introductions, and Goals of the Workshop
 
Laurian Unnevehr, Food Economics Division, ERS 
 
Shelly Ver Ploeg, Food Assistance Branch, ERS
9:00 – 10:30 
Session 1:  Deﬁ ning and Conceptualizing Areas of Low 
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food
 
Chair:  Robert Gibbs, Farm and Rural Household Well-
Being Branch, ERS
 
Lois Morton, Iowa State University
 
Diego Rose, Tulane University 
 
Joel Gittelsohn, Johns Hopkins University
10:30 – 10:45 
Break
10:45 – 12:00 
Session 2: Implications of Low Access for Food and 
Nutrition Assistance
 
Programs
 
Chair:  Steve Carlson, Food and Nutrition Service, 
USDA
 
Carol Olander, Food and Nutrition Service, USDA 
 
Anne Bartholomew, Food and Nutrition Service, USDA  
 
Joel Berg, New York City Coalition Against Hunger
 
Lorette Picciano, Rural Coalition
12:00 – 12:45 pm Lunch at ERS
12:45 – 1:30 
Luncheon Address:   Food Deserts and Diet and Health 
Outcomes
 
Judith Wylie-Rosett, Albert Einstein College of Medicine 
and the American Heart Association
1:30 – 3:00 
Session 3: Community Efforts to Reduce the Impact of 
Areas of Low Access
 
Chair:  Elizabeth Tuckermanty, Cooperative State 
Research, Education, and Extension Service, USDA 
 
Joel Gittelsohn, Johns Hopkins University

===== PAGE 134 =====
124
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
 
LaDonna Redmond, Institute for Community Resource 
Development, Chicago, IL
 
Pamela Roy, Farm to Table & the New Mexico Food and 
Agriculture Policy Council
 
Ken Meter, Crossroads Resource Center, Minneapolis, 
MN
3:00 – 3:15 
Break
3:15 – 4:45 
Session 4:  Roundtable Discussion of Program and Policy 
Options
 
Chair:  Neil Conklin, Farm Foundation 
 
Tim Hammonds, Food Marketing Institute
 
John Weidman, The Food Trust
 
Andy Fisher, Community Food Security Coalition 
 
Kami Pothukuchi, Wayne State University
4:45  
Closing and Adjourn
 
Neil Conklin, Farm Foundation 

===== PAGE 135 =====
125
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Appendix B
Box B.1
Measures of Access Used in Food Desert and Related Studies
1) Algert, Susan J., Aditya Agrawal, and Douglas S. Lewis (2006).  "Disparities in 
Access to Fresh Produce in Low-Income Neighborhoods in Los Angeles."  American 
Journal of Preventive Medicine 30(5):  365-370.
Area Studied
Pomona, CA
Measure of Access
Divided food stores in Pomona as having a “variety” of produce 
or “limited produce” based on onsite inspections, telephone 
interviews regarding produce content, or inference from store 
description. Stores selling four or fewer produce items were 
counted as “limited” while those serving more than four were 
counted as having a “variety” of produce. Access was mea-
sured by distance from a store offering a variety of produce. 
Addresses of food pantry clients were geocoded. Those living 
outside of a “walkable” distance to a store selling a variety of 
produce (0.8 km or about a 15 minute walk) were highlighted 
as not having access to a variety of produce.
2) Alwitt, Linda F., and Thomas D Donley (1997).  "Retail Stores in Poor Urban
Neighborhoods." The Journal of Consumer Affairs 31(1):  139-164.
Area Studied
Chicago, IL
Measure of Access
Examined number of retail stores of different types and sizes 
in “poor” ZIP Codes. Poor ZIP Codes are deﬁ ned as: 1) poverty 
rate in highest quartile of ZIP Codes in Chicago, 2) lowest 
quartile of high school graduation rate, 3) lowest quartile of la-
bor force participation, and/or 4) highest quartile of unemploy-
ment rate. Store size was deﬁ ned by the number of employees. 
3) Apparicio, Philippe, Marie-Soleil Cloutier, and Richard Shearmur (2007).  "The 
case of Montréal's missing food deserts: Evaluation of accessibility to food super-
markets."  International Journal of Health Geographics 6(4).
Area Studied
Montreal, Canada
Measure of Access
Measured access by proximity (nearest supermarket), diversity 
(number of supermarkets within 1,000 meters), and variety in 
terms of food and prices (mean distance to the three closest, 
different chain-name supermarkets). Supermarkets were de-
ﬁ ned as grocery stores associated with one of the seven major 
chains in Quebec.
4) Baker, Elizabeth A., et al. (2006).  "The Role of Race and poverty in Access to 
Foods That Enable Individuals to Adhere to Dietary Guidelines."  Preventing Chronic 
Disease:  Public Health Research, Practice, and Policy 3(3).
Area Studied
St. Louis, MO
Measure of Access
Supermarket audits were used to assess “healthy food” avail-
ability in stores, where healthy food was deﬁ ned by USDA 
dietary intake guidelines. A checklist of 78 canned, fresh, or 
frozen fruits and vegetables were used by auditors. Availability 
of lean, low-fat and fat-free meat, poultry, and dairy products 
was also considered. Composite score for each supermar-
ket was developed based on these audits. The composite 
scores were then divided into tertiles of high, medium, and low 
availability. Census tracts were divided by racial composition 
(greater than 75% African-American, greater than 75% White, 
and mixed) and poverty level (less than 10% poor, 10-20% 
poor, and greater than 20% poor).
5) Berg, Nathan, and James Murdoch (2008).  "Access to grocery stores in Dallas."  
International Journal of Behavioural and Healthcare Research 1(1):  22-37.

===== PAGE 136 =====
126
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Area Studied
Dallas County, TX
Measure of Access
Mapped all of the mainline chain grocery stores in Dallas 
County and then counted how many stores were within a 
1-mile radius of neighborhood Census block groups. The study 
linked this geospatial data with neighborhood income levels, 
poverty levels, and racial composition.
6) Blanchard, Troy C., and Thomas Lyson (2006).  "Access to Low Cost Groceries in
Nonmetropolitan Counties: Large Retailers and the Creation of Food Deserts."  Jour-
nal of Regional Studies.
Area Studied
Mississippi
Measure of Access
A food desert is classiﬁ ed as having no supermarkets or 
supercenters within a 10-mile radius of a ZIP Code centroid 
(with exceptions for highways). A supermarket classiﬁ cation 
was based on having 50 or more employees and a supercenter 
classiﬁ cation was based on NAICS category 452910.
7) Horowitz, Carol R., et. al. (2004).  "Barriers to Buying Healthy Foods for People 
With Diabetes: Evidence of Environmental Disparities."  American Journal of Public 
Health 94(9):  1549-1554.
Area Studied
East Harlem and 
Upper East Side, 
New York City
Measure of Access
Classiﬁ ed stores as desirable if they had at least one item of 
the following ﬁ ve and undesirable if it had none of the items:
(1) Diet soda (1-L or 2-L size)
(2) 1% fat or fat-free milk (1-quart, half-gallon, or 1-gallon size)
(3) High-ﬁ ber bread, low-carbohydrate bread, or both high-ﬁ ber 
and low-carbohydrate bread (deﬁ ned as 2 g or more ﬁ ber, 10 g 
or less carbohydrate per slice, or both)
(4) Fresh fruits
(5) Fresh green vegetables or tomatoes.
8) Block, Daniel and Joanne Kouba (2005).  “A comparison of the availability and af-
fordability of a market basket in two communities in the Chicago area.”  Public Health 
Nutrition 9(7):  837-845.
Area Studied
Austin and Oak 
Park in Chicago, IL
Measure of Access
The study compared item availability, price, and quality of food 
in 10 different types of foodstores in Austin (poor and African-
American) and Oak Wood (upper-middle class and diverse 
races). Item availability was calculated by how many items 
a store stocked from a food list based on the USDA’s Thrifty 
Food Plan. Price was calculated from the items in the food 
basket and the average price from all stores was assigned if 
an item was not sold at that store. Quality rating was subjec-
tive and only given two options, “satisfactory” or “poor.”  The 10 
store types were national and regional chain markets, indepen-
dent supermarkets, independent groceries, chain drug stores, 
gas stations, liquor stores with food, chain convenience stores, 
dollar stores, and specialty stores.
9) Block, JP, RA Scribner, KB DeSalvo (2004). "Fast food, race/ethnicity, and income: 
a geographic analysis." American Journal on Preventive Medicine 27(3):  211-7.

===== PAGE 137 =====
127
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Area Studied
New Orleans, LA
Measure of Access
The study geocoded all fast food restaurants and used a 1 
mile and 0.5-mile radius as buffers around Census tracts to 
determine “shopping areas” in each tract. Fast food restaurant 
density was calculated by the number of fast food restaurants 
per square mile. Fast food restaurants have two or more of the 
following characteristics: expedited food service, takeout busi-
ness, limited or no wait staff, and payment tendered prior to 
receiving food. These data were then compared with neighbor-
hood characteristics, such as percentage Black population and 
low income.
10) Bodor, J Nicholas, Donald Rose, Thomas A Farley, Christopher Swalm, and 
Susanne K Scott. "Neighborhood fruit and vegetable availability and consumption: 
the role of small food stores in an urban environment."  Public Health Nutrition 11(4):  
413-420.
Area Studied
Four Census tracts 
in central-city New 
Orleans
Measure of Access
Adequate access was calculated by two components; distance 
from the household to a foodstore and the instore availability of 
healthy items. The study included all stores selling food within 
the four Census tracts and all supermarkets within 5 km of the 
tract borders. Trained observers determined instore availabil-
ity by calculating the linear shelf space devoted to fruits and 
vegetables and the number of fresh produce varieties available. 
Neighborhood availability was then determined by summing all 
of the shelf space devoted to fresh fruits and vegetables in all 
small food stores within 100 m of the household residence.
11) California Center for Public Health Advocacy, PolicyLink, and UCLA Center for 
Health Policy Research (2008).  Designed for Disease: The Link Between Local Food 
Environments and Obesity and Diabetes.
Area Studied
California
Measure of Access
Retail Food Environment Index (per adult): Total number of fast 
food restaurants and convenience stores divided by the total 
number of grocery stores and produce vendors within a given 
radius of the person’s home. The radius used was 0.5 miles for 
urban areas and 5 miles for rural areas.
12) Clarke, Graham (2002).  "Deriving Indicators of Access to Food Retail Provision 
in British Cities:  Studies of Cardiff, Leeds, and Bradford."  Urban Studies 39(11):  
2041-2060.
Area Studied
Cardiff, Leeds/
Bradford (UK)
Measure of Access 
The study used GIS to map store locations. A circle with a 
500-meter radius was drawn around each multiple/co-op store, 
which represents the maximum walking distance. Potential 
food deserts were only the areas that met the Carstairs indices 
of multiple deprivation and only had a few, small independent 
stores. The Hansen accessibility and spatial interaction model 
take into account the location and size (30,000, 60,000, and 
90,000 square feet) of store in relation to its customers and 
social class structures.
13) Examining the Impact of Food Deserts on Public Health in Chicago. Mari Gal-
lagher Research & Consulting Group (2006).

===== PAGE 138 =====
128
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Area Studied
Chicago, IL
Measure of Access 
Food Balance Score: average distance (blocks) to any main-
stream food venue divided by the average distance to a fringe 
food venue (includes fast-food). A mainstream food venue is a 
grocery store and a fringe food venue is everything else, such 
as convenience stores and fast food restaurants. The study 
compared food ratio scores and their impact on Years of Po-
tential Life Lost (YPLL) and BMI outcomes, holding education, 
income, and race constant.
14) Examining the Impact of Food Deserts on Public Health in Detroit. Mari Gal-
lagher Research & Consulting Group (2007).
Area Studied
Detroit, MI
Measure of Access 
Food Balance Score: average distance (blocks) to any main-
stream food venue divided by the average distance to a fringe 
food venue. A mainstream food venue is a grocery store and 
a fringe food venue is everything else, such as convenience 
stores and fast food restaurants. Researchers manually clas-
siﬁ ed store types based on appearance and items they sold. 
Diet-related death data are used to calculate Years of Potential 
Life Lost, a statistic that measures the total number of life years 
lost due to premature death per 100 people in a population 
from a certain cause. The Food Balance Score was then com-
pared with the YPLL statistic in each neighborhood.
15) Guy, Cliff, Graham Clarke, and Heather Eyre (2004). “Food retail change and the 
growth of food deserts: as case study of Cardiff.”  International Journal of Retail and 
Distribution Management 32(2):  72-88.
Area Studied
Cardiff, UK
Measure of Access 
The study measured the spatial distribution of multiple and co-
op grocery stores (healthy food stores) using electoral divisions 
as the geographical unit. Areas with a high deprivation are 
considered food deserts, and this was calculated by the Welsh 
Index of Multiple Deprivation (IMD). IMD includes income, 
employment, health, education, housing, and geographic 
components.
16) Hendrickson, Deja, Chery Smith, and Nicole Eikenberry (2006).  "Fruit and veg-
etable access in four low-income food deserts communities in Minnesota."  Agricul-
ture and Human Values 23:  371-383.
Area Studied
Four urban and 
rural communities 
in Minnesota
Measure of Access 
The study used a survey based on the Thrifty Food Plan to 
measure the average price per pound of a food item, how 
much of the food item was offered, and the quality of the food 
item. Quality was determined by expiration dates on pack-
aged food and by the opinion of surveyors for produce items. 
Consumer focus groups also revealed what residents thought 
of the availability, quality, and price of food.
17) Hosler, Akiko, et. al. (2008).  "Assessing Retail Fruit and Vegetable Availability 
in Urban and Rural Underserved Communities."  Preventing Chronic Disease 5(4).  
http://www.cdc.gov/pcd/issues/2008/oct/07_0169.htm. Accessed December 4, 2008.

===== PAGE 139 =====
129
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Area Studied
Urban and rural 
areas in New York 
State
Measure of Access 
Instead of categorizing stores based on business type (such 
as a gas station or supermarket), businesses were labeled as 
a fruit and vegetable stores if they stocked at least two types 
of fresh fruit and at least three types of fresh vegetables. There 
were three types of fruit and vegetable stores: super produce 
stores, year-round produce stores, and seasonal produce 
stores. Fruit-for-snack stores were stores that carried at least 
one type of ready-to-eat fresh fruit but didn’t meet the fruit and 
vegetable measure.
18) Sharkey, Joseph R. and Scott Horel (2008).  "Neighborhood Socioeconomic 
Deprivation and Minority Composition Are Associated with Better Potential Spatial 
Access to the Ground-Truthed Food Environment in a Large Rural Area."  The Jour-
nal of Nutrition 138(3):  620-627.
Area Studied
6-county rural 
region in Texas
Measure of Access 
The study calculated the distance to the nearest foodstore from 
the population-weighted center of each CBG and then exam-
ined associations among deprivation, minority composition, 
population density, and distance to foodstore.
19) Kaufman, Phil R. (1999).  "Rural Poor Have Less Access to Supermarkets, Large 
Grocery Stores."  Rural Development Perspectives 13(3):  19-25.
Area Studied
Lower Mississippi 
Delta (36 rural, 
high-poverty 
counties)
Measure of Access 
Net accessibility is the ratio of available large grocery store 
sales to potential food spending by households in a ZIP Code-
based area (region broken up into quartiles). The stores in the 
study all have annual sales of $500,000 or more.
20) Morton, Lois Wright and Troy C. Blanchard (2007).  "Starved for Access: Life in 
Rural America's Food Deserts."  Rural Realities 1(4):  1-10.
Area Studied
Rural Iowa
Measure of Access 
Low access: 50% of population lives more than 10 miles from 
large foodstore (supermarkets or supercenters).
Food Desert: All residents live more than 10 miles from large 
foodstore
Large foodstores are large supermarkets and supercenter.
21) Short, Anne, Julie Guthman, and Samuel Raskin (2007).  "Food Deserts, Oases, 
or Mirages? Small Markets and Community Food Security in the San Francisco Bay 
Area."  Journal of Planning Education and Research 26:  352-364.
Area Studied
San Francisco, CA 
(Bayview, Mis-
sion, Central East 
Oakland)
Measure of Access 
The study measured accessibility by distance (mapping), 
affordability and nutritional adequacy (market basket analy-
sis), cultural acceptability (types, variety and quality of goods 
carried and characteristics that may affect the shopping 
experience), and quality (produce observation) for small (less 
than 3,000 sq ft) full-service foodstores. Instead of measuring 
overall community access, the study measured whether small 
full-service stores can enhance access to food compared with 
chain and large supermarket availability.
22) Smoyer-Tomic, Karen E., John C. Spence, and Carl Amrhein (2006). "Food Des-
erts in the Prairies? Supermarket Accessibility and Neighborhood need in Edmon-
ton, Canada."  The Professional Geographer 58(3):  307-326.

===== PAGE 140 =====
130
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Area Studied
Edmonton, Canada
Measure of Access 
Edmonton was broken up into neighborhoods based on ZIP 
Code and accessibility was measured by distance (shortest 
route) and GIS mapping to the closest supermarket. A super-
market was deﬁ ned as offering a full range of grocery items 
(dairy, fresh produce, meat, and baked goods) and having a 
minimum of 10 employees. Two areas within Edmonton were 
then compared. 
23) Wrigley, Neil, Daniel Warm, and Barrie Margetts (2003).  "Deprivation, diet, and 
food-retail access: ﬁ ndings from the Leeds 'food deserts' study."  Environment and 
Planning A 35: 151-188.
Area Studied
Leeds, England
Measure of Access 
The study measured both the physical (distance and mode 
of transportation) and economic (income) access barriers to 
supermarkets before and after an intervention.
24) Zenk, Shannon, et. al. (2005).  "Neighborhood Racial Composition, Neighbor-
hood Poverty, and the Spatial Accessibility of Supermarkets in Metropolitan Detroit."  
American Journal of Public Health 95(4):  660-667.
Area Studied
Detroit, MI
Measure of Access 
The study measured the Manhattan block distance to near-
est supermarket (only chain supercenters and chain full-line 
grocery stores) from the middle of the neighborhood for 869 
neighborhoods.
25) Zenk, Shannon N., et al. (2005).  "Fruit and Vegetable Intake in African Ameri-
cans: Income and Store Characteristics."  American Journal of Preventive Medicine 
29(1):  1-9.
Area Studied
Eastside Detroit, 
MI (97% African 
American)
Measure of Access 
The study measured the effects of sociodemographics and 
food-store characteristics on fruit and vegetable intake. So-
ciodemographics include age, education, and family income. 
The foodstore characteristics were location, type (classiﬁ ed by 
deﬁ nitions from the Food Marketing Institute), and perceived 
quality and availability of fruit and vegetables.
26) Blanchard, Troy C., and Thomas Lyson (2006).  Food Availability and Food 
Deserts in the Nonmetropolitan South.  Assistance Needs of the South’s Vulnerable 
Populations, Number 12.
Area Studied
South US
Measure of Access 
A food desert is when a certain percentage of a county’s 
population is not located within 10 miles of a large food retailer 
(supermarkets with 50 or more employees, supercenters, and 
wholesale clubs).
27) Powell, Lisa M, et. al. (2006). “Food store availability and neighborhood charac-
teristics in the United States.”  Preventive Medicine 44:  189-195.
Area Studied
28,050 ZIP Codes 
in United States 
Measure of Access 
The study compared the availability of chain and nonchain 
supermarkets, grocery stores, and convenience stores to 
neighborhood characteristics (race, ethnicity, and SES) at the 
ZIP Code level. “Availability” was deﬁ ned as the number of 
each type of store in the ZIP Code.
28) Sturm, R., and A. Datar (2004).  "Body mass index in elementary school chil-
dren, metropolitan area food prices and food outlet density."  The Royal Institute of 
Public Health 119:  1059-1068.
Area Studied
U.S. Kindergarten 
children
Measure of Access 
The study compared the change in the children’s BMIs (ﬁ rst 
year and third year) with the prices for meat, fruits, dairy, and 
fast food and the per capita number of foodstores and restau-
rants in the residence ZIP Code.
29) Powell, Lisa M., et. al. (2007).  "Associations Between Access to Food Stores 
and Adolescent Body Mass Index."  American Journal of Preventive Medicine 
33(4S):  S301-S307.
Area Studied
U.S. adolescents
Measure of Access 
The study compared the BMI of adolescents to the distance 
and type of foodstores located near residence (ZIP Code). 
There were four types of stores: chain supermarkets, nonchain 
supermarkets, grocery stores, and convenience stores.
30) Rose, Donald and Rickelle Richards (2004).  "Food store access and household 
fruit and vegetable use among participants in the US Food Stamp Program."  Public 
Health Nutrition 7(8):  1081-1088.
Area Studied
US
Measure of Access 
Supermarket Access Variable: Distance of store, travel time, 
individuals’ car ownership, and type of store was used to 
measure household fruit use and household vegetable use 
(expressed in grams per male adult equivalent per day).
31) Shaw, Hillary J (2006). "Food Deserts: Towards the Development of a Classiﬁ ca-
tion." Series B: Human Geography 88(2):  231-247.
Area Studied
UK
Measure of Access 
Urban areas were divided into 250 sq m blocks and rural 
areas were divided into 500 sq m blocks. Each neighborhood 
was ranked based on whether the area was residential, had a 
grocery store, and whether 10 or more kinds of fresh fruit and 
vegetables were sold (scale 1-4).
Locations of Food Access Studies
Local/ State: 
 
Regional/ Nation:
1-Pomona, CA 
13-Chicago, IL 
26-South USA
2-Chicago, IL 
14-Detroit, MI 
27-USA
3-Montreal, Canada 
15-Cardiff, UK 
28-USA
4-St. Louis, MO 
16-Minnesota 
29-USA
5-Dallas County, TX 
17-New York 
30-USA
6-Mississippi 
18-Texas 
31-UK
7-New York, NY 
19-Lower MS Delta
8-Chicago, IL 
20-Iowa 
* 26-31 not shown on 
maps
9-New Orleans, LA 
21-San Francisco, CA 
10-New Orleans, LA 
22-Edmonton, Canada
11-California 
23-Leeds, UK
12-Cardiff, UK 
24-Detroit, MI
 
25-Detroit, MI
UK
 23
 22
 3
16
20
17
6
 12, 15
 19
 4
 7
 14, 24, 25

2, 8, 13
 9, 10
 1
 21
11
Canada
USA

===== PAGE 141 =====
131
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Appendix C
Methods, Supporting Tables, and Maps for 
National-Level Analysis of Supermarket Access 
I. Methods
Store Directory Development.  The directory of authorized SNAP 
foodstores was merged with the TDLinx listing of supermarkets to take 
advantage of the strengths found in each source.  SNAP-authorized stores 
that did not match with the TDLinx directory were examined in detail.  
After reviewing SNAP stores classiﬁ ed as either SM (supermarkets) or SS 
(superstores) in the 2006 listing, it was concluded that many of the SNAP 
superstores did not meet the same criteria as the industry supermarkets.51
To further sort through which of the SNAP stores met the deﬁ nition of a 
supermarket, researchers examined the annual total sales and food sales of 
all SNAP stores classiﬁ ed as SM and SS that did not match with TDLinx 
supermarkets.  Stores that did not meet the annual $2 million in sales 
requirement or that did not have signiﬁ cant food sales were eliminated.  
Researchers used the Trade Dimensions Marketing Guidebook (2008) 
to verify where food sales data were unavailable or not current.  Online 
sources, such as company Web sites and other online sources for additional 
information about a store’s annual sales and the kinds of foods sold, were 
checked.  By combining the two store listings and using outside sources 
for veriﬁ cation, researchers obtained a more comprehensive national list of 
supermarkets and supercenters. 
The combined list of supermarkets was converted into a GIS-useable 
format by geocoding the street addresses into store point locations. In 
many instances, the two databases referenced the same store, while in 
other instances the geocoded location differed.  To address near-matches, 
researchers employed a proximity analysis and an automated matching 
system to analyze similarities in store names and addresses and location.  
Some manual data analysis was also performed to identify points in the two 
data sets that were the same supermarket.  The resulting data set included all 
of the more than 34,000 TDlinx store locations, as well as an additional 6,000 
SNAP store locations (all of which had annual sales above $2 million and did 
not match a TDlinx store).  The ﬁ nal combined data set included locations 
for 40,108 supermarkets and supercenters nationwide.
Walking and Driving Distances Measures of Access. Walking access 
measures a range of distances for which it is feasible to walk to a 
supermarket, while drivable distance measures a range of distances for 
which it is feasible to drive to a supermarket.  Researchers developed a time-
based distance measure equivalent for both walking and driving.  A walking 
speed of 2 miles per hour was assumed; thus, “high” access would equal a 
15-minute walk, or one-half mile in distance.  For drivability, researchers 
assumed a point-to-point driving speed of 40 miles per hour; thus, a walking 
distance equivalent to “high” access based on driving is 10 miles (40mph 
x 0.25 hours).  These measures were extended to obtain driving time-
equivalent distances for “medium” and “low” access.
51 SNAP-authorized stores were, for 
the most part, self-classiﬁ ed by the 
applicant.  A large number of SNAP 
superstores are known to carry some 
packaged foods but are less likely to 
include fresh fruit and vegetables or 
fresh meat products.

===== PAGE 142 =====
132
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
The walkability range is categorized as high, if a supermarket is within a 
half mile; medium, if a supermarket is between one-half and 1 mile; and 
low, if the nearest supermarket is more than a mile away.  Obviously, 
whether walking to a supermarket is feasible or not depends on more than 
just distance—it could also depend on whether the individual is capable of 
walking that distance, whether there are safe sidewalks on which to walk and 
controlled intersections, and whether there are other barriers, such as crime 
that may make walking to a store dangerous.  Furthermore, the measures of 
distance are all Euclidian, or straight-line distance, which may not represent 
the actually distance that must be walked to access a supermarket.  Despite 
these limitations, this deﬁ nition of walkability is grounded in the literature.  
Algert, Agrawal, and Lewis (2006) deﬁ ned access to stores selling a variety 
of produce as a walkable distance of 0.8 km., or about a 15-minute walk.  
Apparicio et al. (2007) measured supermarket access proximity by the 
number of stores within 1,000 meters, or about 0.6 miles.  In a study by 
the California Center for Public Health Advocacy and the UCLA Center 
for Health Policy Research (2008), a store radius of 0.5 miles was used to 
determine adequate access in urban areas.   
In rural areas, a drivability measure of access is also used.  Drivability is 
categorized as either high, if a supermarket is within 10 miles; medium, 
if a supermarket is between 10 and 20 miles; and low, if a supermarket is 
greater than 20 miles away.  The drivability range is not as well grounded 
in the literature as is the walkability range.  Sharkey and Horel (2009) used 
a walking distance of 1 mile, and driving distances of 3, 5, and 10 miles to 
measure foodstore proximity in six rural counties in Texas.  Morton and 
Blanchard used any distance outside of 10 miles to describe areas with 
limited access (2007).  Kaufman (1999) found access to a supermarket 
involved a trip of more than 30 miles for 70 percent of low-income 
households in a 36-county area of Mississippi, Louisiana, and Arkansas.  
Researchers know of no other studies that have systematically characterized 
rural areas as having access to stores or not.  The categorization is admittedly 
somewhat arbitrary, but is not thought to be unreasonable for illustrating 
national-level trends.  
Use of a Kernel Density Function to Deﬁ ne Low-Income Areas.  Two 
criteria were used to identify low-income neighborhoods and communities: 
a household income had to equal 200 percent or less of the Federal poverty 
threshold, and, for a given geographic area, at least 40 percent of the 
population had to meet that criterion.  Because the geographic areas consisted 
of uniform 1-sq.-km. grids, a systematic search criterion was used, where for 
each grid, the population of adjacent grids extending 3 km. in all directions 
was used to test whether at least 40 percent of the total population within the 
search area met the poverty threshold requirement.  This procedure is a type 
of the kernel density function.  Its primary purpose here is to test each grid 
within the context of adjacent grids for meeting the low-income area criteria.  
The kernel density function also serves to smooth the observed variation in 
population income, resulting in contiguous (less fragmented) low-income and 
non-low-income geographic areas, in which the population within these areas 
is more similar than dissimilar with respect to the income thresholds applied.

===== PAGE 143 =====
133
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
While the choice of search area to use is not empirically derived, researchers 
experimented with different search areas and observed the resulting plots of 
low-income areas.  An effort was made to avoid applying search criterion 
less than 3 km., in which results gave highly fragmented (pixilated) areas, 
interspersed with many higher income areas.  Conversely, the use of a large 
search criterion, such as 5 km., resulted in very large low-income areas that 
included many higher income populations within it.  In determining the 
kernel density search area, these factors and outcomes were considered.
II. Tables.
Table C.1
National levels of access households living in higher income areas: walking and driving distances1
Access level 
Number
of square-
kilometer grids
Share of 
total square 
kilometer 
grids 
Total 
higher-income 
area persons,
by access level2 
Share of total 
higher-income 
area persons, 
by access level
Number of 
low-income 
persons in 
higher-income 
areas, by 
access level 
Share of total 
low-income 
persons in 
higher-income 
areas, by 
access level 
Percent
Millions
Percent
Percent
Walking:
  High
57,209
1.0
47.6
22.8
10.6
24.4
  Medium
148,359
2.6
68.0
32.6
13.9
32.2
  Low
5,433,305
96.4
92.8
44.5
18.8
43.3
Subtotal
5,638,873
100.0
208.3
100.0
43.3
100.0
Driving:
  High
3,776,567
67.0
205.2
98.5
42.4
97.9
  Medium
1,292,894
22.9
2.8
1.3
0.8
1.9
  Low
569,412
10.1
0.3
0.1
0.1
0.2
Subtotal
5,638,873
100.0
208.3
100.0
43.3
100.0
1Includes low-income households living in higher-income areas.
2Areas deﬁ ned according to ERS criteria.  See text for details.
Sources: Census of Population, 2000 and ERS-compiled 2006 supermarket directory.

===== PAGE 144 =====
134
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
III. Figures.
Measuring Access Using Cumulative Density Functions (CDFs).  In the 
area-based analysis, researchers ﬁ rst separated the U.S. population into one 
of three urbanicity types (urban, urban clusters, and rural) to compare access 
to supermarkets among areas having similar levels of built environment.  For 
each urbanicity, low-income areas were compared with non-low income 
areas, as well as for three additional vulnerable subpopulations.  Within 
each urbanicity-subpopulation class, distance was measured to the nearest 
supermarket for each grid.  All grids were ranked according to distance, 
from closest to farthest.  The corresponding populations of the ranked grids 
were tallied and accumulated.  The resulting distances and corresponding 
cumulative share of total population were plotted in a cumulative density 
function (CDF) chart, in which for any point on the curve(s), distance 
(measured on the horizontal axis) and its corresponding cumulative share of 
population (measured on the vertical axis) can be determined.  
Figure C.1. plots separate CDFs for each of the three urbanicities:  urban 
areas, urban clusters, and rural areas.  The vertical axis shows the cumulative 
share of the total U.S. population, with the horizontal axis indicating distance 
to the nearest supermarket.  Using CDFs, one can examine the CDF curves 
of two or more subpopulations for potential access inequalities.  Large 
differences in access appear as gaps between the individual CDF curves.  
The overall shape of individual curves also reﬂ ects the range of access 
experienced for a given share of the population or subpopulation.  Access 
curves initially having very steep slopes and gradually ﬂ attening at the top 
indicate superior access relative to access curves that have a more gradual 
slope extending to the upper right corner of the chart.  These differences 
can be seen in ﬁ gure C.1., where dotted vertical lines demarcate distances 
of 0.5 and 1.0 miles, indicating high, medium, and low access for each of 
the three urban categories.  The intersections of the horizontal lines on each 
curve indicate the corresponding share of the total population for each urban 
category.  Accordingly, 74.4 percent of the urban population was within 1 
mile of the nearest supermarket.  Access in urban clusters was only slightly 
lower, where 64.9 percent of the population had a supermarket within 1 mile. 
In contrast, rural populations had considerably lower levels of access.  Only 
12.4 percent of the rural population was within 1 mile of a supermarket.  
This result is not unexpected, due to the much greater spatial dispersion 
of the rural population and its greater dependence on owned-vehicle 
transportation.52  
Similar CDF charts are presented below for selected urbanicity-
subpopulation combinations.  
52In the analysis of rural area access to 
supermarkets, we employ both walking 
and driving distance criteria.  We do not 
show the drivable distance on ﬁ gures 
that include urban and urban cluster 
areas because very few people in these 
areas are outside of 10 miles of a super-
market (in fact, almost all are within 4 
miles, as shown in ﬁ gure 3.1. 

===== PAGE 145 =====
135
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
0
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
0.5
1
2
3
4
Distance to nearest supermarket (mi)
Cumulative share of population (%)
Urban areas
Urban clusters
Rural areas
Figure C.1
Supermarket access by urbanicity for the total population
0
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1
2
3
4
Distance to nearest supermarket (mi)
Cumulative share of low income population (%)
Figure C.2
Access to supermarkets by urbanization level for non low income areas
Low income area
Non−low income areas

===== PAGE 146 =====
136
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
0
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1
2
3
4
Distance to nearest supermarket (mi)
Cumulative share of low income population (%)
Figure C.3
Supermarket access for low-income individuals in low-income and 
non-low-income areas within urban areas
Low income area
Non−low income areas
Distance to nearest supermarket (mi)
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Cumulative share of households without a vehicle
Figure C.4
Supermarket access for households without vehicle by low-income and 
non-low-income areas within rural areas
10
5
0
15
20
25
Low income area
Non−low income 
areas

===== PAGE 147 =====
137
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Distance to nearest supermarket (mi)
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Cumulative share of non−White population
Figure C.5
Supermarket access for non-White individuals by low-income and 
non-low-income areas within rural areas
10
5
0
15
20
25
Distance to nearest supermarket (mi)
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Cumulative share of people 65 and older
Figure C.6
Supermarket access for elderly households by low-income and non-low-
income areas within rural areas
10
5
0
15
20
25

===== PAGE 148 =====
138
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Methodology for Average Time Spent 
in Travel to Grocery Shopping
The estimates of average time spent in travel to grocery shopping were 
made using the pooled 2003-2007 American Time Use Survey (ATUS) 
data.  The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics’ ATUS is a continuous survey 
that began in 2003.  One individual age 15 or older from each sampled 
household is interviewed about his or her use of time for the 24-hour period 
from 4 a.m. the day before the interview to 4 a.m. on the interview day.  The 
time diary information includes where the respondent was and whom the 
respondent was with for each activity.  The ATUS also collects information 
on the respondent’s household, labor force participation, and demographic 
characteristics.  (For more information on the ATUS, see www.bls.gov/tus).
The pooled 2003-2007 ATUS microdata ﬁ les contain 72,922 completed 
interviews.  Of those, 11,726 observations are of respondents who grocery 
shopped on their diary day.
Measuring travel time can be difﬁ cult and complex.  Individuals string 
together activities with travel in between (“trip chaining”), making it 
difﬁ cult to separate out travel speciﬁ c for a single activity.  For example, an 
individual may leave from home and travel some distance, stop to buy coffee, 
then continue traveling to the work location, work a full day, then travel to 
the dry cleaners, pick up dry cleaning, travel to the grocery store, grocery 
shop, travel to a restaurant, eat at the restaurant, and, ﬁ nally, travel home.  
In this case, neither commuting to or from work or traveling to or from the 
grocery store is a single travel occurrence.
The ATUS time diary data contain extensive information about Americans’ 
travel.  The data specify travel as an activity, and record mode of 
transportation and whom the respondent was with when traveling.  If the 
travel was by vehicle, the data include whether the respondent was the driver 
or passenger.  Travel is deﬁ ned as moving from one location (or address) to 
another.
To deal with the complexities of trip chaining, ATUS codes the travel 
activities as to their purpose, looking ahead to the next activity and location.  
For example, the time a respondent travels from home to work is coded 
as 180501, “Travel related to working.”  If the respondent went grocery 
shopping after work, the time spent traveling to the store is coded as 180701, 
“Travel related to grocery shopping.”  The exception to the “looking ahead” 
rule is when the respondent is traveling from one location to home, in which 
case the purpose of the travel is coded as a previous activity.  As a result, 
calculating travel time to the grocery store is complicated by the fact that 
some diaries will have only one “side” of travel related to grocery shopping 
coded as travel related to grocery shopping and others will have both 
sides—the going and coming home—of the trip coded as travel related to 
grocery shopping.  
To best deal with trip chaining and the ATUS coding, researchers decided 
to estimate average time to the grocery store as follows.  For each time 
diary with grocery shopping as an activity in the respondent’s time diary, 
researchers added all legs of travel from home to the grocery store and then 

===== PAGE 149 =====
139
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
added all legs of travel from the grocery store to home.  The total travel time 
home-to-shopping was compared with the total travel time shopping-to-
home, and the shorter total time was chosen as the “time distance” to grocery 
shopping.  In doing this, researchers did not have to consider the coded 
purpose of the travel, and they also did not have to consider the “dwell time,” 
that is, the time spent on an activity between two travel occurrences.  All the 
characteristics of travel to grocery shopping, such as mode of transportation, 
were characteristics of the shorter travel side.  In cases where the respondent 
did not start the day at home or did not end the day at home, researchers only 
had information for one side (home to grocery shopping or grocery shopping 
to home).  In these cases, the total travel time for that side was used as the 
time distance to the grocery shopping.  
For 6.4 percent of the grocery shoppers in the ATUS data, the shortest time 
distance is actually from work and not from home.  It was decided that the 
work location is a relevant means of access to grocery shopping, so for these 
respondents the travel time is work-to-store or store-to-work.  Consequently, 
the average times presented use two “anchors,” home and work.
Grocery shopping was deﬁ ned as the ATUS activity 070101 with the 
location of grocery store, restaurant or bar, other store/mall, outdoors away 
from home, or other place.  Grocery shopping with the locations home, 
work, church, and library were not included so as to exclude online grocery 
shopping.  If the respondent was not at home for any activity in the 24-hour 
time diary, that observation was not included.  If the mode of travel was by 
airplane, the observation was excluded as the grocery shopping was likely in 
an airport during out-of-town travel.  Thirty-seven observations with grocery 
shopping were excluded for the following reasons:  it was determined that 
the respondent was out of town when the grocery shopping took place; the 
time diary was not clear as to what the respondent did on the diary day, 
usually due to “can’t remember” or “none of your business” responses; 
or the respondent had a large number of errands or other activities on the 
diary day such that the total travel time to grocery shopping would likely 
be an overestimate of the time distance to the grocery store.  The resulting 
dataset used to calculate the estimates contains 11,569 observations.  A small 
number of extreme cases were included—respondents who had zero minutes 
travel to grocery shopping, which is possible if the store is in the same 
building as the respondent’s previous activity, and respondents who had 
120 minutes or longer travel to grocery shopping.  Additional details about 
variable coding and deﬁ nitions are available on request.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) and the Census Bureau calculated 
the estimates to ERS speciﬁ cations to have estimates by whether or not the 
respondent was in a low-access area.  Without BLS and Census cooperation, 
this analysis could not have been done as detailed geographical information 
is not publicly available in the ATUS data ﬁ les.  
The analysis used 90 percent conﬁ dence intervals to determine whether two 
average time estimates were statistically different.

===== PAGE 150 =====

===== PAGE 151 =====
141
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Appendix D
Examples of Community Food Projects 
by Type of Project
Food Assessments
The Fresno Fresh Access Project was funded at $200,000 for 2 years. 
The grantee organization was the Fresno Metropolitan Ministry, Fresno, 
California.  The purpose of this community food assessment was to identify 
key factors in food availability, accessibility, affordability, and quality in 
Fresno County. The objectives were to assess a number of districts, involve 
local residents and community volunteers in the survey process, empower 
community members to make food policy recommendations to local ofﬁ cials, 
and create an action plan from data collected during the assessment.
The Fresno Metropolitan Ministry trained more than 80 local neighborhood 
leaders, conducted more than 850 survey-assessments of consumers, and 
surveyed 131 retail stores. Numerous activities and several different formats 
were used to collect data in an effort to assess area food needs. Activities 
included surveys, use of assessment software, GIS mapping, and local task 
forces. These methods provided different perspectives on food and nutrition 
needs in the county. Using software and GIS mapping tools, a base map of 
the food system in Fresno County was developed.
Some of the ﬁ ndings included the following (Jessup, 2005):
Low-income people bought fresh produce at ﬂ ea markets, but some 
• 
lacked funds to buy fresh food;
Healthy, culturally appropriate foods were not available in some 
• 
neighborhoods; 
About one-third of weekly meals consisted of fast food;
• 
Food resources in the Fresno area that could contribute to both food 
• 
access and economic development around food production and 
distribution were abundant; and
Food acquisition habits varied by ethnicity.
• 
Web site:  www.fresnometroministry.org
The Community Tradition, Foods, and Future, an assessment project, 
was funded at $13,895 for 1 year. The organization funded was Legacy 
Cultural Learning Center, Muskogee, OK. The food assessment planned by 
the Legacy Cultural Learning Center was guided by a publication produced 
through another CFPCGP grant with First Nations Development Institute 
(FNDI). FNDI was awarded a grant for training and technical assistance 
called the Food Sovereignty Assessment Tool (FSAT) (2004). The FSAT 
publication provides an introduction to the food security movement in 
Indian country and is a resource for thinking about food systems in Native 
communities and what can be done to regain control of Native food systems. 

===== PAGE 152 =====
142
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
The FSAT has been widely used by Native American groups in assessing 
their food systems.
The Legacy Cultural Learning Center’s project goal was to create the 
ﬁ rst organized collection of data focused on the food, diet, and traditional 
agriculture issues of the Muskoke People and their neighbors.  The project 
assessed the food assets, strengths, needs, and deﬁ ciencies of rural, 
low-income communities in the Tribal Nation.  They conducted meetings 
and surveys in 17 of the 23 Muskoke communities and in one neighboring 
Seminole Nation community to assess food system assets, strengths, needs, 
and deﬁ ciencies.  There was good participation in discussions focused on 
diet-related health problems such as diabetes, heart trouble, and high blood 
pressure.
Data was collected from written surveys and also from more than 17 person-
to-person interviews with tribal and community leaders, academics, and 
project collaborators. Through the surveys, the project learned that the Tribal 
Elderly Nutrition Service operates 10 fully equipped kitchens and dining 
facilities serving more than 18,000 meals monthly, including an extensive 
home delivery network. The surveys uncovered a heavy reliance on fast 
food, a preference for local food but limited access to it, and signiﬁ cant 
concerns about rising food costs. Approximately one-third of respondents 
have gardens. Surveys found a signiﬁ cant positive consumer response to the 
availability of locally produced foods available directly from farmers and 
farmers’ markets. However, there are few local growers and small farmers do 
not have the ability to supply the quantities needed. 
Following the surveys and interviews, project staff developed a draft plan 
of action to address the most urgent needs and concerns, including Elderly 
Nutrition Service purchases of local products, initiation of community 
gardens on donated land, purchase of a large RV to serve as a mobile 
resource center, and establishment of a Native Foods restaurant (The Legacy 
Learning Center, Muskogee, Oklahoma, 2006). 
Web site: www.legacycultural.org/artwellness
Food Policy Councils
The project, Food Access and Food Justice in New Orleans: Rising 
Above the Waterline, was funded in 2006 for $265,000 for 3 years. 
The organization funded was the New Orleans Food and Farm Network 
(NOFFN). It was designed to assist in the Hurricane Katrina recovery. 
The project supported the development of sustainable food projects 
and neighborhood capacity by facilitating innovative linkages at the 
neighborhood level.  In brought together diverse groups including public 
health, social work, urban agriculture, and food security sectors via an active 
food system coalition. 
The ﬁ rst component of NOFFN’s project was to increase food justice 
awareness in New Orleans through expanding the membership and 
representation of “Grow New Orleans,” the local food system coalition. 
Grow New Orleans mobilized and connected food system stakeholders 

===== PAGE 153 =====
143
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
and community members, and created a formalized food policy network to 
inform public policy and private development. 
The project helped to rebuild the food system by developing a food access 
and food justice action plan and by creating neighborhood food access 
maps. These inform both the general public and those involved in rebuilding 
efforts. To further include and mobilize the public, NOFFN involved 
communities and leaders to conduct neighborhood-based participatory food 
assessments. They plan to create sustainable community food projects based 
on neighborhood appraisals and regional assets, which contribute to local 
food security. NOFFN plans to facilitate three to ﬁ ve targeted community 
food projects, which will lead to a sustainable and just food system (World 
Hunger Year, 2009; Food Security Learning Center).
Web site: www.noffn.org
Educating State Legislative Leaders and CFP Grantees About Policy 
Options That Support Community Food Systems was a project funded 
in 2005 for 2 years at $200,000. The organization funded was the National 
Conference of State Legislatures (NCSL).  The goal of this training and 
technical assistance project was to broaden the CFP program’s impact on 
State and local policy by sponsoring site visits and forums for legislators, 
legislative staff, and community representatives, and by hosting a national 
training session for CFP grantees to learn about legislative processes, to 
build capacity of CFP grantees to implement policy initiatives as part 
of their projects.  Policy training on such topics as food policy councils, 
direct marketing, and procurement policy were offered. In recognition of 
the role legislators have in crafting policy, NCSL educated them and their 
staff about the legislative and programmatic components of creating a 
sustainable community food system and enhancing access to fresh produce. 
This component had the added beneﬁ t of building relationships between 
legislators and CFP grantees. 
The project consisted of two components: site visits and training. Three 
2-day site visits provided a forum for participants to discuss problems 
and progress in implementing community food systems with agriculture, 
transportation, land-use, nutrition, food service, food security, and education 
experts. Participants, including legislators, legislative staff, CFP grantees 
and local stakeholders, visited sites ranging from small farms, distribution 
centers, schools, or other State institutions that purchase local produce, or 
farmers’ markets. Preference for selection of programs for the site visits were 
given to past or current CFP grantees. The second component was a 1-day 
pre-conference training at the 2006 Community Food Security Coalition 
(CFSC) annual conference to educate CFP grantees about the legislative 
process and about how to incorporate policy into current or future programs. 
NCSL partnered with the CFSC throughout this entire project (World Hunger 
Year, 2009). 
Web site: http://www.ncsl.org

===== PAGE 154 =====
144
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
Youth Programs
Healthy Harvests Initiative: Building Boston’s Food Security from the 
Ground Up was funded in 2000 for 2 years at $150,000.  The organization 
funded was The Food Project in Lincoln, MA. The Food Project made 
substantial progress in demonstrating the economic viability of a sustainable 
metropolitan food system by linking food production with youth and 
community-based enterprise. It opened and equipped a 1,500-square foot 
urban center that included a commercial kitchen and involved youth in 
business startup and management by working with them to research, design, 
and test a value-added food enterprise: farm-fresh salsa. It also tripled the 
membership in its Community Supported Agriculture program and increased 
both its urban and rural farmland.
The kitchen has become an integral part of The Food Project’s work. Youth 
use the kitchen to process and prepare produce for value-added products, 
a catering business, and weekly food deliveries. All of the programs 
incorporate culinary and nutrition training, expanding the scope of the 
involvement of youth in the creation of a local food system. Children from 
local elementary and middle schools have classes in the kitchen, which is 
also available to local growers for canning food grown in their gardens.
Healthy food production and consumption skills were further modeled in the 
community through land remediation, education, and outreach. Under the 
grant, an additional urban lot was cleared, cleaned, and put into production 
growing herbs and vegetables. Youth further began a series of regular 
community lunches and now prepare 11 lunches annually serving over 800 
people. The Food Project has also established an education center with a 
library of cookbooks and resources on food enterprise development. The 
project also runs two farmers markets a week for the entire local community 
where youth are employed in marketing and selling the produce they grow 
(World Hunger Year, 2009). 
Web site: http://www.thefoodproject.org
“Food for Life” was funded in 2001 at $180,000 for 3 years. The 
organization funded is the Youth Farm and Market Project (YFMP) in 
Minneapolis, MN.  A central objective of the grant to the YFMP was to 
help youth both understand and strengthen the local food system (i.e., to 
learn to grow food, to plan and prepare nutritious meals, and to increase 
community awareness, health, and diversity). To that end, YFMP collected 
recipes that emphasized nutritional content, as well as other cooking class 
materials. They created and implemented a comprehensive, cultural nutrition 
curriculum, which called for the participation of parents and local chefs. 
YFMP has grown a variety of cultural foods, speciﬁ cally Asian and Latin 
American, for summer lunches. Meal plans emphasizing the importance of 
balance were also designed. 
YFMP worked with ethnic farmers of the Twin Cities area to plan purchases 
and distribution in low-income housing developments. YFMP staff also met 
with school ofﬁ cials to discuss securing more local, organic produce for 
school meals. They worked to sell produce to several local businesses and 

===== PAGE 155 =====
145
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
restaurants and to secure culturally appropriate foods that would supplement 
project-grown foods for summer lunches. Program participants had at least 
three opportunities to prepare a meal alongside local chefs. Youth-led harvest 
festivals provided recognition, community meals, and awards for project 
participants. 
Another objective of the grant was to make a wider variety of foods available 
to low-income consumers via public housing markets. They assisted 
immigrant growers who were able to sell a variety of vegetables and prepared 
foods to the project. They also worked with a number of schools on gardens 
and on getting local foods into school meals. They ran a youth farmstand at a 
senior public housing high rise, which was very popular with senior residents 
(World Hunger Year, 2009). 
Web site: http://www.youthfarm.net
Entrepreneurial Food and Agriculture Activities
Appalachian Center for Economic Networks is an organization in 
Athens, OH, that has been funded for two separate projects, both involving 
entrepreneurial training: “Appalachian FoodNet Project” in 2003 and “Rural 
Food Centers Project” in 2005. The total amount funded was $200,000. 
These projects enhanced the food system in a three-county area of 
southeastern Ohio by developing linkages between low-income residents, 
food businesses, consumers, and nonproﬁ t and faith-based organizations. The 
project developed a gleaning and food processing program, provided training 
and assistance to food-related businesses started by low-income people, 
expanded a regional branding program, and convened a local food congress. 
These projects responded to the goals of the Appalachian Food Congress 
by establishing three new food centers in isolated rural communities to help 
meet long-term food and economic needs, provide food processing and 
gardening training, and expand markets for local products and low-income 
entrepreneurs. 
The project provided direct technical assistance in bringing the kitchen 
up to commercial codes, developing strategic uses for the kitchens, and 
providing basic equipment needed for the planned uses. Once operational, 
these kitchens were able to offer food processing and training to low-income 
residents hoping to start small food businesses to supplement family income. 
The kitchens will also be able to process gleaned crops from neighboring 
ﬁ elds to assist local food pantries that are housed in their facilities. The 
commercial kitchens can also be utilized for hosting summer feeding 
programs for low-income children during the summer months (World 
Hunger Year, 2009). 
Web site:  http://www.acenetworks.org
Building an Integrated Sustainable Food System was funded in 2005 
for $210,000 for 3 years.  The organization funded was the Appalachian 
Sustainable Development, Abington, Virginia.

===== PAGE 156 =====
146
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
This project promoted a “ﬁ eld to table” strategy in southern Virginia and 
eastern Tennessee to stimulate the development of food and farm-based 
economic opportunities for limited resource farmers and entrepreneurs, to 
increase access to local foods for low-income households, to enhance the 
value-added infrastructure, and to educate the public about a sustainable food 
system. 
The main needs this project addressed were poor or inadequate nutrition; the 
decline in farm incomes and family farming; lack of access to larger, better 
paying markets for local farm products; the lack of infrastructure needed 
to add value to local farm products; the lack of affordable, locally raised 
organic and sustainable farm products; and inadequate research, education, 
and technical assistance available to farmers attempting new enterprises and/
or production practices. The overall purpose of this project is to help create a 
more just and sustainable food system in southwestern Virginia and northeast 
Tennessee, one that can serve as a model for other rural regions around 
the Nation (World Hunger Year, 2009; Food Security Learning Center, 
Community Food Projects Database). 
Web site:  http://www.appsusdev.org
Urban Agriculture
Integrated Development Through Urban Agriculture was funded in 2002 
and 2005 for a total of $184,000. The organization funded was Nuestras 
Raices in Holyoke, Massachusetts. The grantee built an urban agriculture 
center with classrooms and a community gathering space, as well as a bakery 
and restaurant that were later spun off to private entrepreneurs.  The grantee 
conducted market research and promotion of Puerto Rican specialty produce, 
assisted experienced community gardeners in establishing commercial 
gardens, and aided youth in establishing a market garden.  
A second CFP grant in 2002 allowed Nuestras Raices to build on and expand 
its agriculture-based community development work. The organization took 
a leadership role in the development of the Holyoke Food Policy Council, 
a partnership of 30 members from various sectors of the food system. 
The council conducted a visioning/mapping exercise and interviewed 
stakeholders to complete a study of the local food system. Nuestras Raices 
established two new community gardens at public housing projects with 
plots for 6 families and 40 youth. An existing 17-plot community garden 
was transformed into a market garden where adults and youth have begun 
farming commercially. The organization also conducts a Spanish-language 
promotion program for two farmers’ markets, supports a youth-managed 
stand at one of the markets, provides technical assistance and shared tools to 
residents growing Puerto Rican specialty crops not available elsewhere, and 
is developing seed sources for those crops to sell at farmers markets. 
To increase the agricultural space in the community, CFP grant funding 
allowed Nuestras Raices to look for farmland for purchase. Two plots 
were identiﬁ ed and in late 2004, with State and foundation funding, the 
organization was able to buy a 4-acre stretch of land on the Connecticut 
River near downtown Holyoke. The land, called the Tierra de Oportunidades, 

===== PAGE 157 =====
147
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
now includes six new market farms, nature trails, an outdoor stage, tropical 
ﬂ owers and crops, and a farmstand. There are plans for a youth center and 
an ofﬁ ce on the land as well, in part to reﬂ ect the substantial involvement of 
community youth in the efforts to purchase the land and to draft a business 
plan for the farm operation (World Hunger Year, 2009; Food Security 
Learning Center, Community Food Projects Database). 
Web site: http://www.nuestras-raices.org
Neighborhood Urban Agricultural Coalition was funded in 2002 for 
3 years at $200,000.  Greensgrow in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, was 
funded for this project.  The project provided a comprehensive, practical 
approach to improving access to fresh food in low-income communities 
through the establishment of small, locally owned urban farms that use 
vacant land and “brownﬁ elds,” sponsored and developed by community-
based organizations and community development corporations. The effort 
developed neighborhood cooperatives (CSA shares) to be supplied by both 
urban producers and rural farmers. 
The grant helped Greensgrow to establish the Neighborhood Urban 
Agriculture Coalition to increase access to healthy food in the surrounding 
neighborhood. The farm has started a twice-weekly farmstand on its property 
that sells its own produce along with products from other nearby farms and 
producers. Over 20 farms are part of the project, including Amish farms and 
some from nearby New Jersey. All food is labeled with place of origin and 
any special growing practices. The stand accepts food stamps and WIC and 
Senior Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program coupons, and operates a satellite 
stand at the nearby Senior Center. Development of the Greensgrow nursery 
and CSA were also facilitated by CFP funding. Greensgrow is established 
as a group of producers and farmers who make value-added product and sell 
them at both the Greensgrow farmstand and to the Reading Terminal Market, 
a major public market in Philadelphia. The farm has been able to expand into 
two additional small lots, now used for heirloom tomatoes and bee colonies. 
Farm staff teach low-income urban consumers about the complexity of 
community food issues.  The staff also brings concerns of consumers to the 
producer group.  Greensgrow also is working with local high schools and 
Temple University, whose students are learning about the Greensgrow model 
for urban agriculture.
Greensgrow aims to encourage other similar brownﬁ eld land redevelopment 
in Philadelphia. It is involved in local zoning issues and has developed a 
preliminary site selection protocol for other groups to use (World Hunger 
Year, 2009).  
Web site:  http://www.greensgrow.org
Rural Producers
The Tribal Fish Market Connection Project was funded in 2003 for 
$125,000 for 3 years.  The organization funded was Ecotrust, Portland, OR.  
The project works with the Columbia River Inter-Tribal Fish Commission 
(CRITFC) on wild salmon marketing and helps provide more diverse sources 

===== PAGE 158 =====
148
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
of revenue and employment to the 400 tribal ﬁ sher families on the Columbia 
River. The project helped build a business plan and product development 
capacity for the four Columbia River treaty ﬁ shing tribes represented by 
CRITFC—the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation, the 
Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs Reservation, the Yakama Nation, 
and the Nez Perce Tribe. The tribes are brought together by the struggle to 
save the salmon and by shared spiritual traditions. Fishers involved in the 
project are selling their “treaty right tribal caught ﬁ sh” at Portland Farmers’ 
Market, with a devoted fan base and the capacity to increase their income 
fourfold. With Ecotrust spreading the word, consumers are quickly learning 
that there are plenty of high-quality regional foods that not only taste great 
but can help maintain a way of life closely tied to the identity and spirit of 
tribal nations (World Hunger Year, 209). 
Web site: http://www.ecotrust.org
Patchwork Family Farms: Value-Added Processing for Community 
Food Security was a project funded for $183,898 through the Missouri Rural 
Crisis Center, Columbia, Missouri.  The project built the capacity of two 
ongoing programs, “Patchwork Family Farms” and the “Food Cooperative,” 
to become self-sufﬁ cient through value-added processing activities. The 
project increased processing capacity by 20 percent, increasing proﬁ tability 
per hog by ﬁ nding uses for less popular cuts of meat.  The project 
successfully produced and marketed additional value-added products. 
Expanding on a food cooperative system already in place, the project 
increased the diversity and volume of local products available to cooperative 
members in 23 rural counties in the middle of the State. 
Patchwork Family Farms is composed of 15 independent family hog farmers. 
When consumers purchase a Patchwork product, the money directly supports 
Missouri farm families. Patchwork Family Farms has been recognized 
by USDA, the Environmental Protection Agency, and Oxfam America 
for their efforts to help the environment and sustain the traditions of rural 
communities.  Meat was cooperatively sold to African-American churches in 
St. Louis and Kansas City at reasonable prices.
During 1999, when hog prices for Missouri farmers averaged 28 cents per 
pound, Patchwork producers received 43 cents per pound.  With the grant, 
Patchwork Family Farms was able to double their product line, test value-
added marketing, and provide a “best sellers” product list. To achieve the 
goal of expanding the food cooperative system, this project grew the capacity 
for marketing and distribution of locally raised produce, meat, and other 
local products to low- and moderate-income families in Mid-Missouri. This 
expanded marketing capacity allows for local growers and producers to 
supply the enlarging cooperative system. Also, the project worked to increase 
the number of farmers and grantee chapter members who are growing for 
themselves and for sale through the coop program. 
To grow the coop system, through increased demand, the Missouri Rural 
Crisis Center will develop an outreach campaign targeting rural Missourians 
that explains the economic, environmental, social, and public health beneﬁ ts 
of community-based food systems. To further the public’s appreciation of 

===== PAGE 159 =====
149
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
local foods and increase or continue interest in coops and local products, they 
will also provide education and resources pertaining to the preparation and 
processing of locally raised food and related products (World Hunger Year, 
2009; Food Security Learning Center, Community Food Projects Database). 
Web site: http://www.inmotionmagazine.com/rural.html
Community Gardens
Urban Detroit Agriculture and Education Project received funding of 
$150,000 in 2003 for 2 years. The organization funded was Capuchin Soup 
Kitchen, Detroit, Michigan. The project provides a haven for low-income 
people to socialize with their neighbors, gives access to affordable produce, 
and educates people about nutrition and the origins of their food. The project 
has evolved to focus on four objectives: launching a Garden Resource 
Program, organizing educational opportunities for community and backyard 
gardeners, developing the Romanowski Farm Park (a public park centered 
on a 5-acre farm in Detroit), and increasing access to nutritious food for all 
Detroiters. The project works with 80 community gardens connected to many 
grassroots organizations that are critical to the success of the program.  This 
Detroit project is an example of the extraordinary types of collaborations that 
make community food projects work. The project works with the following 
collaborators:  The Greening of Detroit,  Detroit Agriculture Network, 
Michigan State University Extension, O.W. Holmes Elementary School,  
American Indian Health and Family Services, City of Detroit Recreation 
Department,  Michigan Association of Community Gardeners, Michigan 
Department of Agriculture, Gleaners Food Bank, Michigan Department 
of Community Health, Catherine Ferguson Academy, Detroit 4H Center, 
Foundation for Agriculture Resources in Michigan and Michigan State 
University.
The Garden Resource Program encourages communication and collaboration 
among gardeners working in the same areas (called clusters) of the city. 
In the program’s ﬁ rst year (2004), it offered several incentives to facilitate 
the efforts of the 300 households working in 33 community gardens and 
47 family gardens. The program tilled or plowed gardens; tested soil for 
nutrients and heavy metals; delivered compost and woodchips to gardeners; 
distributed coffee bags for use as a weed barrier; provided tools; distributed 
containers of vegetable, herb, and ﬂ ower seedlings ready for planting; 
and organized hundreds of volunteers. At meetings in each of the four 
participating city clusters, gardeners have chosen a neighborhood leader 
and a location for a neighborhood resource center. In addition, the Garden 
Resource Program will use the Soup Kitchen’s Earth Works Garden 
program as a model for future market expansion for its own participants. 
Last year, Earth Works program gardeners sold produce, honey, black 
raspberry-currant, and gooseberry jams at four low-income health clinics. 
They marketed their products at a local farmers’ market in the spring and 
planned to harvest vegetables from the farm in the summer. Through all its 
efforts, the program improves communication, services, and resources for 
participants and ultimately increases access to affordable, nutritious food.

===== PAGE 160 =====
150
Access to Affordable and Nutritious Food: Measuring and Understanding Food Deserts and Their Consequences 
United States Department of Agriculture
The Capuchin Soup Kitchen and its partners have increased food security 
throughout Detroit by increasing the number of urban gardeners citywide 
and by seeking new partners. The Urban Detroit Agriculture and Education 
project grant allowed project partners to form the Detroit Agriculture 
Network, which will become its own nonproﬁ t organization focused on food 
security (World Hunger Year, 2009). 
Web site:  http://www.cskdetroit.org/
