
===== PAGE 1 =====
Data Driven Insight: 
Evaluating the Dun 
and Bradstreet Toolkit 
 
 
 
 
   
 

===== PAGE 2 =====
1   
 
Dun and Bradstreet Evaluation  
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Can business insight gleaned from detailed data make a difference in keeping businesses 
operating and thriving, even during an unprecedented pandemic? This interagency project 
tested whether third-party business analytics software would improve business engagement, 
along with performance outcomes, across Washington’s workforce development system. The 
project was initiated before the COVID-19 pandemic upended the economy. But by pushing 
back the one-year pilot’s deadline and moving licenses around to maximize staff capacity to use 
the new tool, workforce and economic development partners were able to test drive this 
concept at locations across the state. 
The project stems from a 2019 request from the Workforce Training and Education Coordinating 
Board (Workforce Board) to the Governor and Legislature to create a dashboard that tracks the 
impact of public workforce development services on business engagement and business 
satisfaction. This request aligned with the Workforce Board’s strategic priority to enhance and 
increase business engagement for the comprehensive workforce development system (including 
all forms of education, training, and support services). 
The Workforce Board identified Dun & Bradstreet (D&B) proprietary data and its EconoVue (EV) 
and Market Insight (MI) tools for their potential to help the system pinpoint business needs at a 
more granular level than is possible with administrative data. D&B acquires data by analyzing 
payment experiences, banking information, government registries, and various online tracking 
systems to create a robust profile of millions of companies from around the world. This public, 
proprietary, entrusted, and behavioral data is housed in a data cloud to be used in analytics 
tools. The toolkit can generate scores, ratings and insights including analyzing financial stress, 
enabling the workforce system to strategically target assistance to businesses likely to lay off 
employees. 
The one-year trial of the D&B data, software, and training was acquired at a significantly 
reduced cost—an almost 40 percent reduction of the standard market rate. This reduced rate 
was presented by D&B as an affordable way to demonstrate the product’s value. The state could 
then test drive the tools to see if they made sense to incorporate into the state’s workforce 
development resources and strategy. Initial costs associated with D&B was $214,500. However, 
this does not include the additional staffing required to facilitate the product. The total planned 
staffing costs among the three partners was $324,848, bringing the project total to an estimated 
$539,348. The initial D&B exploration project was paid for primarily using the Governor’s 
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) discretionary funding alongside $65,000 
from the Department of Commerce (Commerce) to support a 0.5 FTE. 

===== PAGE 3 =====
2   
 
 
In utilizing complementary third-party data tools such as D&B, the state could determine 
whether they helped to: 
 
Better deploy economic development resources where they are most needed. 
 
Optimize workforce development and layoff aversion strategies. 
 
Utilize a more robust data collection and analysis system to inform economic and 
workforce development priorities. 
By sharing business information and coordinating resources, public sector partners would also 
be able to reduce duplication and link services toward better outcomes, and potentially reach a 
greater number of businesses and workers. 
Commerce, Employment Security Department (ESD), and the Workforce Board launched an 
interagency agreement for a one-year trial with D&B to evaluate its effectiveness in achieving 
these goals by leveraging the D&B toolset. This work included the use and analysis of D&B’s 
proprietary data in conjunction with resources from the three partner agencies. The project, 
which began in Fall 2019, was delayed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Project partners 
are grateful to D&B and the Governor’s office for a nine-month extension to June 2021 to be 
able to more thoroughly test drive the tools, evaluate their effectiveness, and provide an overall 
analysis of this project. 
This report evaluates the D&B data toolset in engaging and supporting businesses in variety of 
ways, working with multiple partners across the state. The project delved into three main areas: 
1. Identify opportunities to increase business engagement and effectiveness in delivering 
services across all stakeholders in Washington’s workforce system. 
2. Assess the value of the D&B products as a tool to enhance business services and/or as a 
potential data set in the proposed business engagement dashboard, and implications for 
future funding. 
3. Increase interagency (and partner) collaboration, data sharing, and support. 
a.  Short term - D&B assessment  
b.  Long term - Opportunities for ongoing collaboration, including the creation of a 
dashboard displaying key business engagement indicators, as well as relevant 
economic and workforce data. 
Value Added by Dun and Bradstreet 
This coordinated approach, in some cases, yielded positive returns. Interagency collaboration 
resulted in shared data, resources, and knowledge; aided in the distribution of economic 

===== PAGE 4 =====
3   
 
assistance services; and supported layoff aversion efforts. Though D&B data is imperfect, its 
large database includes valuable information on a wide range of Washington businesses. This 
information is not typically available to those without a D&B subscription. This can hinder the 
type and level of assistance provided to businesses by agencies and partners who lack this type 
of detailed, data-rich information. Initial investigations show this data has the ability to help 
workforce and economic development professionals provide assistance to distressed businesses 
and industries much more quickly, avert business closures and layoffs, place unemployed 
workers into training or jobs, and connect businesses with qualified workers. By proactively 
identifying distressed businesses before a WARN notice1 is issued, for instance, the state can 
engage with businesses and workers when there is still time to make a difference. But the 
successful and regular use of these D&B tools wasn’t universal. Also, some partners took issue 
with incomplete data and data that was inconsistent with existing state databases, among other 
concerns. The following is an overview of D&B’s strengths and weaknesses. 
Strengths 
 
Identifies previously unknown businesses.2 
 
Accessible contact information for a wide range of businesses. 
 
Predictive analytics (including proprietary Financial Stress and Growth Scores). 
 
Data variables and filters providing insight into a business’s health and the ability to 
refine searches by various criteria. 
 
Demographic insight on business ownership, including those owned by women and 
minorities. 
 
Search and analyze region-specific data. 
 
Shared database among partner agencies. 
 
Availability of raw, complete data that can be downloaded and utilized. 
 
Timely, actionable data to provide assistance more quickly. 
 
Business knowledge and client support services. 
Weaknesses 
 
Training and technical skills needed to effectively use this tool. 
 
Data caveats: 
o Incomplete data. 
o Incorrect data (or not updated). 
 
1 The federal WARN (Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification) Act requires companies with 100 or 
more employees to notify affected workers 60 days before closures and layoffs. 
2 State and local agencies do track businesses, although not all businesses are included in these 
databases. 

===== PAGE 5 =====
4   
 
o Data that significantly differs from internal state (ESD labor market and 
Department of Revenue) data sources. 
o Limited time series data that makes it difficult to do longer-term comparisons. 
o Lack of transparency of the methodology used in predictive variables. 
 
Data sharing limitations. 
 
Cost of future investment. 
 
Cost of FTEs to support software, toolkit, and partner assistance. 
Pandemic impacts evaluation 
The COVID-19 pandemic, which included the mandatory shutdown of businesses and schools 
starting in March of 2020, had profound repercussions on Washington’s economy and 
workforce. Because of this unprecedented disruption, projections and assumptions built on 
previous economic cycles were no longer necessarily valid. This had significant ramifications 
when evaluating the effectiveness of the D&B tools. These tools mine data from business-to-
business transactions. Much of this typical business activity stalled during much of 2020 and into 
early 2021. 
Under more typical economic conditions, business financial distress is not as rapid or as 
devastating as the sudden, enforced shutdowns of multiple industries, as was the case during 
COVID-19. During more normal economic times, it is easier to pick out distressed businesses or 
industries that can be helped by government services before they close or begin to lay off 
workers. The city of Los Angeles, for instance, used D&B’s predictive analytics to identify 
distressed businesses for the city’s layoff aversion program. This helped the city to exceed its 
goals for identifying at-risk-businesses by 25 percent and boosted its consultation/site visits by 
more than 50 percent3 
During the pandemic—when many, if not most, sectors were effectively shuttered at least 
temporarily—it became much more difficult to single out specific businesses or industries that 
were underperforming relative to their peers. This relative underperformance can be a key 
indicator of distress. Because businesses were being shut down across the board, it became 
difficult to determine which merited outreach efforts. 
Another hurdle during the COVID-19 pandemic was the limited time workforce and economic 
partners had to learn to use new tools. These partners were in crisis mode, reacting to the 
sudden economic freefall caused by a global pandemic. Many were unable to dedicate 
 
3 Layoff Aversion Program FY2014: Economic Impact Analysis, Institute for Applied Economics, Los 
Angeles County Economic Development Corporation, July 2014. 

===== PAGE 6 =====
5   
 
significant resources to learning and using D&B tools as they prioritized more immediate relief 
efforts. 
However, the pilot showed that while the tools did not provide answers to every question, some 
participating partners found they were useful. Staff who were able to effectively utilize these 
tools connected with businesses to avert layoffs, identified potential recipients of economic 
assistance grants, implemented job fairs, and conducted other outreach efforts. These users 
recommended purchasing the D&B tools for use on an ongoing basis. While D&B is not, nor 
should any data set be expected to be, a “silver bullet” that provides answers to all queries, this 
pilot showed that it does complement other traditional economic and labor market information. 
These partners found the products to be helpful supports, optimized to complement, rather 
than replace, traditional data already in use. 
 
 

===== PAGE 7 =====
6   
 
INTRODUCTION 
In the age of information, access to accurate, real-time data is essential to maintaining economic 
competitiveness. Information is the new commodity of the 21st Century, more valuable than gold 
or oil. While the gathering and commercialization of vast troves of information is readily 
apparent in the private sector, this vital resource also helps the public sector carry out its 
mission in helping businesses survive and thrive. 
State policy makers and practitioners require vast amounts of information for a myriad of uses, 
from better understanding the day-to-day economic struggles of local marginalized populations 
to outlining in-demand skills needed for family-wage jobs, to identifying struggling businesses 
in need of assistance to tracking and encouraging growth industries. While the primary public 
sector use case for this data during economic recovery is helping businesses with financial 
assistance and layoff aversion, accurate, timely information is key during any economic cycle.  
Washington’s public systems currently do not have access to reliable, up-to-date information 
that can provide a more complete picture of the economic health of the state’s businesses, 
including their financial viability, or their short- and long-term prospects for growth or 
contraction. Without this ground-floor data, it has been difficult to target businesses for either 
lay-off aversion or to support business growth or technology transformation. To be meaningful, 
the system needs real-time data from most, if not all employers about their specific job make-up 
and competitive outlook. This data is needed to build stronger partnerships with industry and to 
map new career and credential pathways for workers, with an eye toward long-term labor 
market value for both employees and employers. 
Data analytics tools provided by third-party vendors such as Dun & Bradstreet (D&B) can help 
public sector agencies keep on top of economic trends and gain a more nuanced understanding 
of the needs of their business customers and workforce. This information can help answer 
broader questions about local and regional labor markets, which jobs and industries are 
declining or increasing, which emerging skills are needed to fill talent pipelines, and which 
specific workforce and economic development resources can help business and industry the 
most. Regional Workforce Development Councils (WDCs) along with county-level Associate 
Development Organizations (ADOs) and Economic Development Councils (EDCs) are able to 
deliver targeted services through timely, situational, business-specific data gathered at a local 
level. This granular information is largely unavailable from other sources. For instance, D&B can 
identify local business branches along with linked franchises. Other data may only list a 
company at its headquarters location. 
Recognizing this, the state’s Department of Commerce (Commerce), Employment Security 
Department (ESD), and the Workforce Training and Education Coordinating Board (Workforce 

===== PAGE 8 =====
7   
 
Board), with funding from the Governor’s office, created an interagency team to assess the 
potential of D&B data to enhance business engagement with economic and workforce support 
systems. The purpose of the interagency project was to identify public and potential third-party 
business analytics data sets to improve business engagement and performance outcomes across 
the workforce development system. This project specifically explored D&B’s proprietary data in 
conjunction with the administrative data and research strengths of partner agencies. 
The project also included the development of staff capacity across multiple agency partners to 
understand and make use of the data to strategically deploy limited public resources to support 
businesses, workers, and jobseekers. This state-level use of data was in addition to on-the-
ground deployment by regional workforce and economic development partners, who were 
better able to tailor their services to meet local business needs. Through shared business 
information and coordinated resources, partner agencies also had the opportunity to reduce 
duplication of services. Instead, they could “knock once” on a business door in a coordinated 
way, rather than reaching out on multiple, often overlapping fronts and potentially frustrating 
business customers. The D&B toolkit also helped workforce and economic development 
organizations reach a greater number of businesses and workers, because the toolkit helped 
surface a larger number of businesses than traditional analytics alone. 
The D&B toolkit also has the potential to enhance local workforce and economic development 
outreach by providing a data-driven understanding of the local and regional economic 
landscape. With this ground-level understanding, staff will be better able to contact and engage 
with businesses needing support—from those struggling to survive to businesses requiring 
assistance with expansion efforts. Leveraging the power of D&B’s EconoVue and Market Insight 
data tools could help staff connect with more of these businesses and result in increased 
awareness and participation in the state’s business support systems. 
ENHANCED BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT 
Exploring new ways to drive business engagement and satisfaction with the state’s economic 
and workforce systems helped inspire the short-term, multi-agency D&B data project. Data sets 
such as those provided by D&B have the potential to aid in business engagement in a number 
of ways. First, EconoVue and Market Insights are fed by a database of millions of companies, 
along with contact information, that can be used to engage businesses directly. Secondly, 
predictive variables can help guide specific outreach efforts, such as identifying growing 
businesses or those in financial distress, to better engage with public economic and workforce 
development systems that can offer support. This data can then be used to identify and 
establish direct connections with individual businesses and customize a menu of services at the 
state and local level based on specific needs. Providing workforce system access to this data 

===== PAGE 9 =====
8   
 
would support more timely delivery of layoff aversion efforts, upskilling or reskilling current 
workers, worker retention, and better preparation of new entrants for available jobs. 
Previous research indicates this enhanced engagement is likely to benefit employers. Many are 
not aware of the business services available to them. Meanwhile, the relatively small number of 
businesses who do use these services have reported positive outcomes. According to the 
Workforce Board’s 2020 Washington Employer Workforce Needs and Practices Survey4 prior to 
the pandemic, nearly 70 percent of Washington’s more than 200,000 employers with two or 
more workers experienced workforce challenges in the preceding 12 months, yet more than 
one-third (36 percent) of Washington employers were unaware of the state workforce system 
services. 
Among employers who were aware of the public workforce system, more than one in four stated 
they did not use the system’s services due to the perception that the services did not fit their 
needs. However, of those employers who used state workforce system services, such as 
WorkSource offices, at least 60 percent were more likely to report a helpful outcome when 
addressing turnover and retention as their biggest workforce challenge, according to the 
Workforce Board’s report. Given the gap between many Washington employers and their 
knowledge about available workforce services, there is an opportunity to reach out to 
businesses, increase awareness about the services offered, and support these businesses based 
on their needs. 
Business engagement efforts in other parts of the country have proven successful. One study 
commissioned by the City of Los Angeles Workforce Investment Board and the City of Los 
Angeles Community Development Department, showed these types of efforts, and others, led to 
the retention of over 5,000 jobs for struggling businesses with their Layoff Aversion Program 
(LAP).5 The layoff aversion program used D&B data to augment outreach efforts to businesses 
deemed “at-risk,” and subsequently engaged them with communications and services. The study 
estimated that the retained jobs were expected to create $2.3 billion in economic activity in Los 
Angeles County and support 11,880-plus jobs generating a combined income of $690.5 million. 
This analysis shows the potential direct and indirect benefits to the economy, which included 
those “at-risk” jobs which were retained (direct) as well as those businesses whose revenues 
 
4 Dula, C. (2020). 2020 Washington Employer Workforce Needs and Practices Survey. Olympia, WA: 
Workforce Training and Education Coordinating Board.  
5  Institute for Applied Economics, Los Angeles County Economic Development Corporation. (2014). Layoff 
Aversion Program FY2014: Economic Impact Analysis. Los Angelas, CA: Los Angeles County 
Economic Development Corporation. 

===== PAGE 10 =====
9   
 
stem from those “at-risk” jobs (indirect). Averting layoffs, as this example shows, can pay off 
immensely. 
Another report by the Lumina Foundation noted that Cerritos College, a community college in 
southeastern Los Angeles County, found that using real-time labor market data revealed 
growing demand in niche areas of manufacturing that were hidden within traditional industry 
data: 
When these new real-time analytics are combined with traditional labor market analysis 
and more consistent tracking of post-graduation labor market outcomes such as 
employment and earning status, community colleges will strengthen their capabilities for 
market-driven programming and be better-positioned to confront growing demands for 
accountability and outcomes-based funding.6 
Washington’s own Workforce Economic Recovery Plan,7 developed in September 2020 by the 
Workforce Board to map an equitable path out of the pandemic, also recognized the value this 
data could provide. The plan noted that D&B data could be used to quickly identify the growth 
or contraction in businesses and industries and use that information to better target economic 
and workforce recovery efforts. 
Other examples of public workforce agencies utilizing D&B data to improve business 
engagement include compiling more targeted mailing lists for job fairs (Madera County, CA), 
proactively pinpointing financially stressed businesses for outreach (Oklahoma City), identifying 
businesses with soon-to-expire lease agreements prior to closure or moving (San Joaquin 
County, CA), identifying at-risk companies in priority sectors for layoff aversion intervention 
(Morgan Hill, CA). 
BACKGROUND 
In 2019, the Workforce Board requested purchasing D&B business analytics, packaged as the 
“EconoVue” tool, to the Governor and Legislature. This supported the Workforce Board’s 
strategic priority and top initiative: enhanced and increased business engagement for the 
comprehensive workforce development system (including all forms of education, training, and 
support services). The idea behind this request was that the D&B toolset has the potential to 
 
6 Dorrer, J. (2016). Using Real-Time Labor Market Information to Achieve Better Labor Market Outcomes. 
Indianapolis, IN: Lumina Foundation. 
7 Workforce Training and Education Coordinating Board. (2020). Washington's Workforce Economic 
Recovery Plan. Olympia: Workforce Training and Education Coordinating Board. 

===== PAGE 11 =====
10   
 
further business connections by supporting an employer 
engagement dashboard and providing more targeted 
and granular business information to workforce 
development partners. 
Commerce, ESD, and the Workforce Board, in 
compliance with the federal Workforce Innovation & 
Opportunity Act (WIOA), contracted with D&B to assess 
the usefulness of the vendor’s data and tools. WIOA 
statewide activity funds, provided by Gov. Inslee, 
supported the purchase of a one-year, reduced-cost 
license of the D&B product, and added staff capacity for 
the three partner agencies to work with the data. The 
funds also supported staff development to understand 
and make use of proprietary D&B data to better and 
more strategically deploy limited public resources to 
support businesses, their workers, and jobseekers. This 
project intentionally supported cross-agency 
collaboration to understand and make recommendations 
on the use of D&B data to improve relevant business 
services provided by the state, its agencies, and partner 
organizations, and explore its viability in supporting a 
business engagement dashboard. With shared business 
information and designated coordination of resources, 
state agencies would also be able to reduce duplication 
and link services towards better outcomes, and 
potentially reach a greater number of businesses and 
workers than the workforce development system does 
currently. 
Project funding included $214,500 (about 60% of market 
cost) to purchase access to the D&B tools including 10 
Market Insight (MI) licenses, 25 EconoVue (EV) licenses, 
access to 25,000 contact leads, and detailed business 
details (providing highly comprehensive information on 
specific companies upon request), in addition to the 
necessary staff training to use the tools effectively. The data derived from these tools was used 
to augment other available administrative data sets to support and accelerate program and 
COVID-19 IMPACT 
The contract to evaluate D&B was 
signed in 2020 at about the same time 
as the COVID-19 pandemic shuttered 
businesses and schools across the 
state. This had major consequences for 
both the timeline of the project and its 
evaluation. 
 
Many of the partner agencies and 
stakeholders initially tasked to 
participate in the usage and evaluation 
of D&B tools were reassigned to focus 
on the COVID-19 crisis, with staff and 
economic resources prioritized toward 
emergency layoff aversion and 
economic assistance efforts.  
Many were unable to dedicate 
resources and staff time to learn and 
employ the new software packages 
despite possible benefits they might 
yield. Nor were they able to test drive 
the additional tools D&B introduced.  
 
While the project’s timeline was 
extended to accommodate this shift, 
the usage of D&B tools was in many 
cases focused on financial assistance, 
economic recovery, and layoff aversion, 
at the expense of identifying growing 
sectors and aligning them with 
workforce needs. 

===== PAGE 12 =====
11   
 
policy decision-making related to business engagement and performance outcomes across the 
workforce development system. 
Staff across the three agencies (Commerce, ESD, and Workforce Board) collaborated on cross-
system planning and implementation of new practices toward a comprehensive, state-wide 
“upskill-backfill”8 approach to business engagement and services. However, due to the impact of 
the COVID-19 pandemic, much of these cooperative efforts were refocused on layoff aversion 
and economic recovery initiatives. Additional workforce system partners were invited to 
participate but were unable to given the lack of available staff resources during the pandemic. 
The intention of the original contract was for partner agencies to report to the Governor’s Office 
on the project’s progress and provide information that could aid the decision-making process 
for a possible budget request for the 2021 legislative session. However, the COVID-19 pandemic 
dropped the state’s economy off the deep end. The pandemic posed a substantial projected 
state budget shortfall, changed worker priorities, and led to a hiring freeze that limited staffing 
capacity for this project. The pandemic also sunk the economy into a sudden recession, drying 
up tax revenue and scuttling potential budget requests to the Legislature. 
CROSS-AGENCY COLLABORATION 
Washington state government agencies and their partners have embarked on a collaborative 
effort to more effectively deploy limited public resources to support businesses, workers, and 
jobseekers. This emphasis on enhanced collaboration and reduced “silo” mentality among 
stakeholders is part of broader efforts by the Governor and policymakers to reduce duplicative 
efforts, increase efficiency, and maximize public resources. 
Continuing to coordinate efforts among the three project agencies—Commerce, ESD, and 
Workforce Board—will enable effective cross-system planning and implementation of new 
practices toward a comprehensive, statewide effort to build and retain talent in partnership with 
the state’s businesses. Given the substantial effects COVID-19 has had on the economy and 
workforce, interagency cooperation will be more vital than ever to maximize the effectiveness of 
state resources. The collaborative interagency team that came together during this pilot was 
invested in supporting each other and their local partners with the overall goal of achieving 
economic recovery and future growth by: 
 
Coordinating business services across agencies in response to data findings. 
 
8 The Upskill-Backfill Initiative launched by the Workforce Board in previous years focused on providing 
current workers with additional training to move ahead in their careers, opening up slots they left behind 
to be backfilled by entry-level workers. 

===== PAGE 13 =====
12   
 
 
Supporting the Workforce Board’s dashboard utilizing D&B and other data to create 
a prototype data dashboard to track business engagement across the system. 
 
Facilitating the participation of workforce and economic development stakeholders, 
along with business and labor leadership representatives. 
 
Providing accurate, relevant, timely, and accessible workforce and labor market 
information. 
 
Supporting efforts and mandates of WIOA funding. 
 
Reducing duplication of work. 
 
Linking services through better outcomes. 
 
Increasing business engagement across the workforce development system. 
 
Leveraging strategic opportunities such as the D&B toolkit. 
DATA DASHBOARD TO HELP STAFF TRACK TRENDS 
This project also included the development of a series of prototype data dashboards to track 
business engagement across the workforce and economic development system. Developed by 
the Workforce Board and ESD, the dashboards feature D&B tools along with administrative data 
from partner agencies to track the system’s improvement of business service provision. This 
includes D&B data showing businesses in growth and decline and women and minority owned 
businesses. Data from other partner agencies helped develop other dashboards that track the 
number of businesses using public workforce development services sorted by categories such as 
location, industry sector, size, and type. Future development of the dashboard might also track 
the type(s) of services received along with how satisfied businesses are with those services, 
along with occupational trends among businesses utilizing system services. The dashboard is 
intended to help frontline staff, managers, and policymakers make informed decisions about 
how to maximize business and worker services and resources. 
The dashboards below display the following information: 
 
The Business Engagement Dashboard in tab one displays employer and job seeker usage 
of WorkSource services, including employer account requests, direct posted jobs, job 
seeker registrations, and job searches sourced from ESD. Tab two displays women- and 
minority-owned businesses by country and industry sourced from D&B, along with job 
postings and unemployment claims sourced from ESD. 
 
 
The Growth and Decline Dashboard displays businesses in growth and decline sorted by 
county sourced from D&B, along with country unemployment rates sourced from ESD. 
 

===== PAGE 14 =====
13   
 
 
D&B Growth and Decline (by industry)  
D&B Growth and Decline (by industry)  

===== PAGE 15 =====
14   
 
 
Over the course of evaluating the D&B products, the project team also engaged partners to 
discover what indicators and data would be most useful for them and their clients related to 
business engagement and satisfaction, and how they can be measured. For the purposes of 
developing the prototype dashboards, data was sourced from ESD, Commerce, and D&B. Data 
sets to include and/or to be explored for inclusion in future versions9 of a dashboard include: 
 
Dun & Bradstreet Washington Businesses Extract 
o Business growth and contraction 
o Financial stress 
o High Risk Businesses 
o WARN notice 
 
Monthly unemployment claims count 
 
Monthly Unemployment Insurance (UI) rates by county 
 
Weekly initial unemployment claims by county 
 
Workforce supply & demand data tables 
 
Economic development assistance programs 
 
9 Note: The addition of each new data set and ongoing maintenance of new and existing datasets for the 
dashboards would require staff time develop and maintain. 
Business Engagement  

===== PAGE 16 =====
15   
 
 
U.S. Census Small Business Pulse Survey data 
 
Occupational demand 
 
Workforce Development/Workforce System Services Data 
Depending on the source, data can be refined locally by county, zip code, census tract or 
Workforce Development Area (WDA) region. This protype was developed by the Workforce 
Board with assistance from ESD as a proof of concept, with other workforce partner agencies 
supporting its future development with data sources to expand the scope of offerings. 
THE D&B TOOLKIT: WHAT’S INSIDE 
D&B provides commercial data, analytics, and insight for businesses and public-sector 
customers. The one-year trial purchased from D&B included access to three products: EconoVue 
(EV), Market Insight (MI), and detailed financial reports on individual businesses. Although EV 
and MI employ similar data, the platforms vary in terms of their sophistication and necessary 
data analyst skills. D&B acquires data by analyzing payment experiences, banking information, 
government registries, and various online tracking systems to create a robust profile of millions 
of companies from around the world. 
The service provides access to an employer database (including more than 400,000 Washington 
employers) and is designed for public sector use. EV is already in use in at least 10 states. These 
states use this information to make more informed decisions about their workforce investments. 
EV provides both insight into identifying employers at risk of layoff or even closure, as well as 
positive information about employers or sectors likely to begin or continue expanding. 
D&B offers unique proprietary data sourced from a wide variety of global data elements, 
including: credit scores and ratings, over one billion trade experiences, corporate family trees 
and beneficial ownership, banking data, firmographics (demographics of business sectors and 
industries), business registrations, relevant contacts and principals, and buyer intent. The toolkit 
also can analyze financial stress, enabling the workforce system to strategically target assistance 
to businesses likely to lay off employees. 
For example, the D&B Financial Stress Score (categorized as low, medium or high) provides 
predictive insights of the businesses most likely to fail within the next 12-18 months.10 The D&B 
Financial Stress Score assigns a probability of a business experiencing the following: 
 
 
Ceasing operations following assignment of bankruptcy. 
 
Ceasing operations with loss to creditors. 
 
Voluntarily withdrawing from business operation leaving unpaid obligations. 
 
10 https://econovue.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360014389254-ProspectVue-Financial-Stress-Score 

===== PAGE 17 =====
16   
 
 
Going into receivership, reorganization, or making arrangements for the benefit of 
creditors. 
 
According to D&B, companies with low Financial Stress Scores are good candidates for strategic 
partnerships and expansion incentives. Businesses in the medium category are prime candidates 
for proactive outreach. Often, employers in the high stress category have already laid off 
employees or are taking steps to close operations, resulting in a need for Rapid Response or 
Rapid Re-employment engagement. 
These tools are powered by D&B’s proprietary business database for economic analysis and 
detailed company information. This data is supplemented by labor market resources, including 
Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages (U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics), National 
Establishment Time Series (NETS), a private sector source for U.S. business microdata, 
CareerOneStop.org (the U.S. Department of Labor’s career, training, and job search website), and 
Indeed.com (a market-leading search engine for jobseekers). 
Proprietary predictive variables such as the Financial Stress Score and Growth Score provide 
significant insight not available from other vendors. This data does come with a caveat, however. 
Users are not privy to the data and methodology that these scores are derived from. As a result, 
users cannot independently verify the reliability of the data. 
ECONOVUE 
This tool allows users to search for and view information about businesses with certain criteria 
without needing to know basic query knowledge. Users can explore and analyze companies and 
download detailed information on them in different formats including lists, info boxes, company 
reports, and company contacts. For example, users can search for businesses with certain NAICS 
codes, the standard used by federal statistical agencies for classifying businesses for the purpose 
of collecting, analyzing, and publishing data related to the U.S. economy. They can also search 
by business names within a city, zip code, or WDA. 
EV uses numerous data visualization tools and is designed to be drilled down upon, allowing the 
user to investigate and filter based on location, industry, number of employees, financial 
attributes, COVID-19-related attributes, and other criteria. For example, a user could begin by 
analyzing the relative location quotients of industries within a WDA and then drill down to see 
all the restaurants in a city that have a high level of financial stress. Data including business 
contact information can be extracted in Excel and then used accordingly. 

===== PAGE 18 =====
17   
 
 
Distinguishing characteristics of EV include:  
 
Provides users with a good understanding of industries, businesses, and employees. 
 
Filters by WDA, county, zip code, city, and radius searches. 
 
Filters by NAICS codes, O*Net codes and sectors, number of employees, Financial Stress 
Scores, Growth Scores, COVID-19 related attributes, and other filters. 
 
Provides users with fresh data each quarter. 
MARKET INSIGHT 
MI is another way to search and extract D&B data. Extracting data requires some basic query 
knowledge and logic. Using the tool requires some training time and a strong Internet 
connection, but once learned, is relatively straightforward to use (though can be slow depending 
on one’s broadband connection). MI includes all the data found in EV (timing and update 
schedules prevent the data from being identical at every point in time) along with other 
features. Rather than relying on a heavy visualization approach to the data, MI allows the user to 
build data sets, and some visualizations through cubes, trees, and Venn diagrams. The defining 
characteristics of MI include: 
 
Typically used to build data tables based on selected variables. 
 
Additional variables/filters added since COVID-19: PPP Loans > $150,000, pre-COVID-19 
Financial Stress Score, WARN Notices, areas and businesses impacted by natural 
disasters. 
 
Can be used to find linkages of businesses and business “family trees.” 
 
Data is refreshed monthly.  

===== PAGE 19 =====
18   
 
It’s up to users to select each variable when building and analyzing these data sets. For that 
reason, a solid understanding and knowledge of the variables and objective is imperative. 
Through MI it is possible to extract the entire Washington state business data universe (based 
on D&B’s perspective) and use this data with other relevant analytics to build a detailed picture 
of economic regions. An additional benefit to MI is access to national and global data. This 
allows detailed linkage analysis as well as import and export work. This also allows users to look 
at cross-border data with other states, which is useful for border cities like Vancouver, 
Washington, when looking at local information that would include neighboring Portland, or 
businesses in Whatcom County interested in exporting to British Columbia. 
EVALUATION PROCESS 
Beginning in May 2020, the project team worked to provide access and support to users in 
various state agencies for both EV and MI. These outreach efforts were initially hindered as 
WDAs and other organizations prioritized their efforts to respond to the immediate needs of 
their customers in response to COVID-19 before they allocated resources to this project. As a 
result, early potential benefits of using this software remained unrealized as potential 
participants initially focused on pandemic mitigation measures. Only in July 2020 or later were 
many partners able to begin to focus their efforts on training and learning the D&B tools, and to 
implement a business engagement strategy within the COVID-19 landscape. Furthermore, the 
needs of project staff in Commerce and the Workforce Board were similarly focused on the 
response to COVID-19 coupled with a state hiring freeze. This impacted the ability of the 
Workforce Board to put a convener in place and delayed the hiring of an additional analyst at 
Commerce to supplement staff already working on the project. Both the convener and analyst 
were included in the original proposal.  
Starting in May 2020, the D&B project team allocated EV and MI licenses. The team was mindful 
to distribute the licenses equally across agencies, including WDAs and other partners, and to 
ensure they were being used. EV was offered to each WDA and to the Washington Workforce 
Association (WWA), which represents the state’s 12 regional WDAs. Commerce also worked to 
engage Associate Development Organizations (ADOs) and city/county economic development 
offices, although due to COVID-19 many did not have the desire or capacity to engage in D&B. 
The initial training was offered by D&B representatives in early June 2020, with many of the 
WDAs participating. Monthly training sessions exploring different uses for EV and MI were held 
though the end of the contract in May 2021. 
As part of the evaluation process, the project team worked to understand the needs and 
available resources of each D&B user. These efforts included reaching out to each user and 
leading them through discussions of existing business engagement practices to better 
understand how their activities and best practices could be augmented through the usage of 

===== PAGE 20 =====
19   
 
D&B tools. This allowed the project team to determine if the users’ work aligned with the D&B 
toolkit, and to support them with training and technical assistance through D&B customer 
service representatives. Over the course of the pilot, D&B representatives assisted in numerous 
applications of data tools for specific projects, resulting in positive outcomes (see box below, and 
Appendix A) that would otherwise have been possible. 
The wide discrepancy in resources available to D&B users also had a significant impact on how 
effectively participants were able to leverage the D&B tools. This trend was evident across a 
broad spectrum of users including the WDAs, ADOs, the Department of Social and Health 
Service’s Division of Vocational Rehabilitation (DVR), Washington State Board for Community 
and Technical Colleges (SBCTC), Office of Minority & Women's Business Enterprises (OMWBE), 
and other economic and workforce development partners. In general, the more well-resourced 
partners were able to dedicate more staff time to learn how to effectively use D&B tools and 
ultimately, assess their value. Because of differences in capacity, EV and MI licenses were 
reallocated during the project to maximize usage. 
Commerce likewise played a significant role in increasing the breadth of those who could 
benefit from the D&B toolkit. Beginning with their own economic recovery dashboard,11 the 
project team worked with Commerce’s consultants from the Boston Consulting Group (BCG), to 
explore the possibility of using D&B data in their dashboard. Although D&B data was ultimately 
not incorporated in this dashboard because of the uncertainty over how long the agency would 
have access to the data, the experience did enhance interagency relationships and resulted in 
the use of ESD data in the dashboard. The dashboard serves as a template of not only pertinent 
economic data, but how to work collaboratively across agencies. 
Similar efforts can be seen in the relationships with other stakeholders the project team worked 
with including the Washington Hospitality Association (WHA), the Washington Arts Commission, 
various local governments, and others. In each instance, these partners were looking for more 
timely data to aid in their support of businesses and nonprofits that had been most impacted by 
COVID-19. The project also offered an opportunity for the project team to see how D&B data 
compared to external partners’ data resources, much of which they purchased through other 
private vendors. 
 
As part of the D&B evaluation, ESD explored the usage of the D&B data and products by 
allocating licenses to regional economists at the agency’s Labor Market and Economic Analysis 
(LMEA) unit. Given the close relationship between ESD and the WDAs in collecting, analyzing 
and distributing data, D&B tools were viewed as a potential solution to streamline data sharing. 
 
11 https://www.commerce.wa.gov/datadashboard 

===== PAGE 21 =====
20   
 
Data sharing constraints and timeliness of data have posed challenges in the past. (see Appendix 
B). Unfortunately, COVID-19 interfered with these explorations in applying D&B tools to 
supplement and enhance existing data sets and other information. 
FINDINGS 
Over the course of the evaluation process, users (primarily WDAs and Commerce, working with 
their partners) employed D&B tools for dozens of projects. This included: 
 
Gathering and analyzing data for strategic planning. 
 
Identifying women- and minority-owned businesses. 
 
Identifying and engaging previously unknown businesses. 
 
Identifying inactive or closed small businesses. 
 
Identifying and vetting potentially eligible companies for business development, grants 
and workforce aid programs and services. 
 
Providing informed rapid response. 
 
Providing proactive targeted outreach. 
 
Helping with layoff aversion. 
 
Identifying workforce trends. 
 
Identifying the size of specific industries and sectors. 
Because of the pandemic, these tools were often used to identify struggling businesses that 
could benefit from layoff aversion or economic aid programs. The project team worked with 
participants to capture their experiences with the D&B toolkit and the value it provided. The 
following is an example of one such successful project: 

===== PAGE 22 =====
21   
 
 A more complete list of projects undertaken using D&B tools and evaluated can be found in 
Appendix A. 
 
Keep businesses operating, employees working through early identification of distress 
Background: One of the state’s WDCs, Workforce Snohomish used EV to identify the tipping 
point where business intervention is most beneficial in preventing layoffs or closure. 
Results: EV’s filter features helped uncover a struggling sole source provider, and its more 
than 800 workers, who were at significant risk of layoffs. After reaching out to the business, 
the WDC was able to implement a strategy two months before layoffs were to occur. At this 
point, the WDC helped the company file a WARN notice with ESD as well as facilitate three 
on-site Rapid Response units. In combination with local partners at the labor council, a Trade 
Adjustment Assistance petition was filed and certified, allowing employees access to federal 
WIOA funds and other opportunities within the Trade Adjustment Assistance Act. More than 
200 employees were able to find new opportunities due to WDC efforts to align resources 
and other job openings to these at-risk employees, giving them enough time to transition 
rather than continuing down the road to layoffs. 
Impact: The WDC, aided by D&B EV data, was able to identify the distressed company and 
help more than 200 workers with placement in new jobs and work opportunities, while the 
company was able to continue to operate. 
Take-away: According to the WDC, D&B has been a very useful tool and provided 
significant value in this initiative. The effort to triage the struggling company was 
complemented by the collaborative efforts of other workforce partner agencies. 
D&B tools helped yield three definitive positive results from this project: 
1. Support for the company and its hundreds of employees. 
2. Leveraging federal programs like the Trade Adjustment Assistance Act and WIOA. 
3. Creating synergy and connections among partners and other WDCs. 
 
Without EV providing early insight about this company’s economic distress, it’s likely 
hundreds of employees could have lost their jobs and the business would not have 
continued to operate. Instead, the company is still in business, many employees avoided 
layoffs and realized other opportunities, and the WDC was able to provide a template for 
future outreach efforts utilizing D&B tools. 
 

===== PAGE 23 =====
22   
 
Key Strengths and Weaknesses 
Upon completion of the evaluation period, the project team identified common themes 
regarding the usage of the D&B toolsets, including where they provided the greatest value, and 
where their limitations lie. 
Strengths 
1. Identifying previously unknown businesses: D&B data provides users the opportunity to 
proactively connect with businesses that are not accounted for in existing databases. 
Businesses can be searched by geographic area, industry, sector, occupation, financial 
health, and numerous other filters. The D&B methodology of collecting data and 
measuring businesses also includes locating non-traditional workers (temporary, 
contracted, or others working in the gig economy), which provides a wider range of sole 
proprietors and other smaller firms than existing systems can provide. The D&B database 
provides contact information for these companies including names of high-level 
employees, addresses, phone numbers, and frequently, email addresses. 
 
Finding unknown businesses was one of the more widely used D&B applications. 
Numerous WDAs and other users applied various filters to discover businesses that were 
not a part of their existing list of businesses. Commerce and its partners also used this 
function to identify and vet businesses to determine eligibility for economic assistance 
grants. This data can augment existing data bases and make outreach more efficient 
than blind cold calls. 
 
The D&B data base can also provide more granular details on a business and its health. 
Business representatives, armed with more detailed knowledge about a company’s 
financial situation, credit issues, and more, can frame a conversation to best benefit the 
company. For example, a representative can talk about the state’s Shared Work program 
with businesses that may benefit from temporarily cutting their employees’ hours, while 
they receive partial unemployment benefits for lost wages, or the state’s Customized 
Training Program, which provides interest-free training loan assistance. 
 
2. Predictive Analytics: A significant benefit of the data is the use of D&B’s proprietary 
predictive indicators that are in the form of Financial Stress and Growth Scores. The 
Financial Stress Score (FSS) is D&B’s assessment of the likelihood a business will fail. For 
example, a firm with a “high” FSS score has a much greater probability of failing within 
the next 12-18 months than a business with a “medium” or “low” score. The Growth 
Score is D&B’s judgement about the trajectory of a business at that point in time. A 

===== PAGE 24 =====
23   
 
business in the category of “Increase in Scale” is more likely to grow, and increase 
spending and borrowing. On the other hand, a business designated as showing “Early 
Signs of Decay” would suggest that although a business may maintain its size, its 
borrowing or spending is likely to fall. This kind of insight can prioritize business 
engagement efforts. 
 
Updated monthly, both variables drive focused analysis of businesses that have a greater 
likelihood of failure than others. The ability to filter and prioritize businesses allows for a 
targeted approach at the local WDA level to serve and triage businesses that are at high-
risk. This data also helps target growing companies that may be looking to add 
employees. 
The use of this data enabled Commerce, ESD, the Workforce Board, and their partners to 
find and communicate with businesses that might otherwise go unnoticed. They were 
able to speak directly to targeted firms and implement strategies that support both 
struggling and growing businesses. 
Predictive variables were another widely utilized piece of the D&B toolkit. These variables 
helped workforce professionals target a wide range of subsectors (such as Paycheck 
Protection Program loan recipients who received over $150,000—lower amounts are not 
publicly available), industrial sectors, and small businesses to more effectively discover 
and engage businesses most in need of assistance. WDAs were also able to use these 
predictive variables to successfully identify distressed businesses and provide outreach 
services to prevent business closures and layoffs. In cases where business did end up 
closing, employees were able to more quickly find new opportunities due to WDA efforts 
to align resources and communicate about job openings. 
D&B’s financial stability and financial stress tools can be helpful in determining where to 
channel limited resources. It’s important that when a WDA or other government program 
offers business assistance such as training, that this investment is likely to pay off in 
keeping the business going, rather than sinking limited resources into a business unlikely 
to survive, even with assistance. 
D&B can also track the effectiveness of outreach programs by identifying businesses that 
have received assistance or aid and then measuring their performance going forward. 
Dynamic Data Variables and Filters: As previously mentioned, an advantage of D&B tools 
is the ability to use filters to search for businesses behavior (see above). While these 
provide accurate and timely information under normal circumstances, the status quo at 
times is upended by events such as natural disasters, global recessions, and other 

===== PAGE 25 =====
24   
 
unforeseen circumstances, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. In these cases, traditional 
metrics and predictions may no longer be valid, and D&B continues to add new filters 
and adjust variables in an attempt to capture the “new normal.” During the product 
evaluation, COVID-19 and a series of wildfires dealt devastating blows to the state. D&B 
responded by adding new filters to account for these factors in their data and predictive 
variables. 
3. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion: D&B includes in its database filters that can identify 
businesses that are veteran-, women-, or minority-owned. This data is sourced from the 
state’s  OMWBEand Department of Veterans Affairs and merged with D&B’s businesses 
through their matching process. Using this information, WDAs identified women-and 
minority-owned businesses to engage in diversity-designated RFQ and RFP 
opportunities. This data was also used to assess the ratio of diverse business owners and 
could potentially be used to more effectively track these trends over time. 
 
Although these databases are not comprehensive, due in large part to the fact that it is 
based on individual businesses volunteering this information, these sources represent 
another resource of information in an area that has traditionally been difficult to 
accurately assess. Other variables that were explored and could be added to databases 
to expand these efforts include identifying businesses that are owned, employ, or are 
actively seeking to employ, people with disabilities, veterans, or formerly incarcerated. 
 
4. Region-Specific Data: D&B allows users to search within a county, WDA, city, zip code or 
a defined radius to pinpoint which businesses are in the area. Users reported this feature 
would be useful both in identifying similar businesses and competitors, as well as 
potential supply chain partners and customers. Another beneficial use is providing 
information to companies that have recently relocated to an area, or are looking to do 
so. 
 
5. Common shared database among partner agencies: Another benefit of the D&B toolkit is 
the opportunity for Commerce, ESD, Workforce Board, and their partners to work with a 
common shared data set. This allows these agencies to investigate and communicate 
directly with specific businesses. Business-specific data does exist within the Labor 
Market and Economic Analysis (LMEA) division of ESD. However, due to federal and state 
laws and other agreements, much of the data cannot be shared other than at the 
aggregate level such as at the county, WDA, or metropolitan statistical area (MSA) level. 
The same is true with access to more granular, disaggregated data from the Washington 
Department of Revenue (DOR). This data requires a high level of security to access it and 
cannot generally be shared between agencies. For that reason, data can be accessed but 

===== PAGE 26 =====
25   
 
cannot be reported or shared with partners (WDAs, EDCs & ADOs, or WorkSource) that 
have the ability and capacity to work with these businesses directly. 
 
D&B’s common shared database allows all partner agencies with access to use and share 
information freely. During the trial, WDAs and Commerce worked with other partners 
(chambers, municipalities, EDCs, business and trade associations) to perform targeted 
searches and analyses and were then able to share their data and findings. 
 
7. Availability of Raw Data: One major constraint to using publicly available data is privacy, 
which compels sources to anonymize data and even omit data for certain companies if 
their size, scale or operations would essentially reveal their identity. This occurs often 
down to the establishment level, and can have the effect of suppressing more detailed 
data around specific companies or entire industries in some cases. D&B’s advantage in 
this context is that EV and MI provide a lot of granular data related to specific industries 
that is generally not available for other similar products or publicly available data. 
Generally, available sources have more data related to job seekers, but much less for 
employers. 
 
According to some users, the D&B products and databases are particularly useful in 
analyzing large chunks of raw data, as opposed to repackaged data provided by other 
tools. The ability to download, analyze, manipulate and interpret data for individual user 
needs was an important feature for some users. 
8. Timeliness of Data: An advantage to D&B is that EV and MI are updated quarterly and 
monthly, respectively. By contrast, traditional publicly available state and federal data 
sources vary widely in how often they are updated. Some may only be updated quarterly 
or annually and publishing dates can lag further behind. This delay can mean the 
difference between providing a lifeline for a struggling business through layoff aversion 
measures, and a company going out of business and workers filing for unemployment. 
 
9. Business Knowledge and Client Support Services: One more significant benefit of D&B is 
its client support services. The support includes monthly trainings for EV and MI, one-on-
one tutorials of how to utilize the D&B toolkit, as well as responses to time series data 
requests. The responsiveness of the client support team and D&B’s industry experience 
(including contracts with 10 other states), provides partners and users of the D&B toolkit 
with needed, timely help, and a better grasp of how to maximize the tools. 
 
 
Weaknesses 

===== PAGE 27 =====
26   
 
Over the course of usage and evaluation of D&B tools, users generally found value in various 
applications, but agreed that like any data source, D&B is not a “silver bullet” that could answer 
all economic and workforce questions. These limitations manifested themselves in a number of 
ways for different reasons. Some of the more commonly voiced shortcomings are as follows: 
1. Training Requirements: While MI and EV are relatively straight-forward for a user with basic 
query and data knowledge, the tools do require some time to become proficient. This was 
one of the most common concerns among users. Numerous WDAs, ADOs, and other 
organizations were unable to allocate time to learn to use the products when resources were 
stretched thin during the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition to learning how to use the tools, 
it is necessary for users to learn about the underlying data. Even with training provided by 
D&B, these challenges resulted in many of the licenses going unused for periods of time, 
and occasionally being reallocated. While this was a significant challenge during the 
pandemic, it is not clear what the capacity for training would be under normal 
circumstances. 
 
2. Data Caveats: As with any data source, there are many caveats to D&B data including errors 
in the databases related to companies’ information. During the D&B evaluation period, for 
example, a company’s revenue, number of employees, contact data, and other information 
was not always accurate or did not match other data sources, including the state’s 
Department of Revenue and ESD. Key issues included: 
 
a. Incomplete data: When conducting a search using specific filters, the list of 
businesses generated would leave out some companies known to exist in other 
data bases. For example, D&B has a field for minority-owned businesses, or 
women-owned businesses, and results did not fully capture the number of 
minority- and woman-owned businesses. Other searches were found to yield 
similar discrepancies. 
 
Data was also incomplete during a search for small businesses, as evidenced by a 
project carried out by Commerce that resulted in finding data for only about 75 
percent of the businesses that applied for a small business grant program. This 
could be due to unintended adverse effects of quality control measures. D&B 
eliminates non-corporate domain names as part of its vetting process, so any 
email addresses that may contain a Google, Outlook, Yahoo or similar domain are 
weeded out by default. This can result in a significant undercount of email 
contacts for small businesses, which often use such email addresses. 
 

===== PAGE 28 =====
27   
 
b. Incorrect Data: Errors were discovered in the databases, including information 
about revenue, number of employees, contact data, and other company details. 
In other instances, D&B data dropped many small businesses, and nearly all 
micro-businesses, from its database. These smaller businesses were discovered to 
be open and operating. These discrepancies were discovered in a number of 
different projects by WDAs and Commerce. 
 
Because of these discrepancies, some users were wary of using D&B tools as a 
front-line source for identifying businesses for financial assistance. This meant 
practitioners sometimes did not use the tool to see if businesses met qualifying 
criteria such as revenue levels or employee number to qualify for business 
assistance, grants, loans or other support measures. To ensure equitability across 
all applications in reviewing such qualifications, and protect itself from legal 
ramifications, the state does not advise any agency to use D&B in this way. 
 
c. Limited ability to measure business openings and closures: Because the data file 
D&B maintains is constantly changing due to their “business verification” system, 
rather than strictly due to businesses actually opening and closing, users cannot 
compare groups over time (i.e., 400 businesses in NAICS code XXX in June and 
200 businesses in NAICS code XXX in July does not necessarily indicate an 
increase in businesses operating in that NAICS code). This presented challenges 
when users attempted to measure business closures in certain industries or 
regions during the pandemic. While D&B could show how many businesses were 
operating at one point in time compared to another, it could not show 
specifically which businesses had closed or opened. This data also varied greatly 
from reputable public resources, including Opportunity Insight’s Economic 
Tracker and the U.S. Census’s Small Business Pulse Survey. Commerce has chosen 
to rely on these free resources over D&B in tracking small business closures after 
a thorough comparison of multiple data sources. 
 
d. Methodology of Predictive Variables: There are only two predictive variables for 
which users have access (Material Change and Financial Stress Scores). While 
D&B has provided insight into how much of their data is collected, and how their 
predictive variables are developed, their product is proprietary and users do not 
fully understand the methodology used to calculate these scores. For economists 
and other practitioners, it can be difficult to accept the efficacy of the data 
without knowing what goes into the “black box” calculations. Although D&B 
reported the development of additional predictive variables such as a COVID-19 

===== PAGE 29 =====
28   
 
Index and a Lay Off Probability Score, these were not available to the participants 
during this project. 
Because of these discrepancies, some users were wary of using D&B tools as a 
front-line source for identifying businesses based on specific variables. That 
included a reluctance to use D&B tools to vet whether a business meets 
qualifying criteria such as a revenue level or employee number to qualify for 
business assistance, grants, loans or other support measures. 
3. Sharing Limitations: Although D&B can be shared among agencies more freely than other 
data sources, the same cannot be said for sharing data on specific companies outside of 
these partners. Because this data is proprietary, it is only sharable in aggregate (i.e., a user 
cannot say X business publicly, but we can say X industry). This places limitations on the 
granularity of data that can be shared with outside stakeholders. For instance, licensed users 
could share the name and contact information of a financially distressed business with each 
other, but would not be able to share this information with other unlicensed people, entities, 
or the public. 
 
4. Cost of Future Investment: Vendors such as D&B generally offer their products and services 
on a subscription basis, with customers paying a monthly or annual fee that is sometimes 
negotiable. The one-year trial of the D&B data, software, and training was acquired at a 
significantly reduced cost—an almost 40 percent reduction of the standard market rate. This 
reduced rate was presented by D&B as an affordable way to demonstrate the product’s 
value. The state could then test drive the tools to see if they made sense to incorporate into 
the state’s workforce development resources and strategy. Initial costs associated with D&B 
was $214,500. However, this does not include the additional staffing required to facilitate the 
product. The total planned staffing costs between the three partners was $324,848, bringing 
the project total to an estimated $539,348. The initial D&B exploration project was paid for 
primarily using the Governor’s WIOA discretionary funding alongside $65,000 from 
Commerce to support a 0.5 FTE. 
When considering whether to invest in the D&B toolkit, the cost of additional staff time should 
be added to the price tag. It will require at least one FTE to develop, facilitate, and implement a 
usage strategy with current and future partners to maximize the effectiveness of the toolkit. 
Additional staff time would also be required to provide the ongoing support of the software 
users, coordinate training, act as liaison between agencies, and to perform or manage ad hoc 
data request from partners. This position would engage with D&B tools to learn best practices 
to enhance and increase usage of the product across the Washington workforce system. For 
example, there is great opportunity to leverage the product and align it with the needs of the 

===== PAGE 30 =====
29   
 
State Board for Community and Technical Colleges—which helps oversee the state’s 34 
community and technical colleges. D&B data can be used to analyze employer demand for 
certain skills and competencies, along with jobs projected to grow in certain industries. This 
information could help shape offerings at local community and technical colleges that deliver 
training. Based on the costs in the initial proposal for the 1.0 FTE for the ESD position, the staff 
costs would be around $150,000 per year. Assuming similar market costs and the same type of 
D&B package, the cost would be around $360,000 per year, for a total of $510,000 per year. 
CONCLUSION 
The D&B toolkit, including MI and EV products, is able to provide added value to workforce and 
economic development agencies seeking to help Washington businesses meet economic 
challenges, keep their employees working, build their revenue, and in the best cases, expand. 
This complementary data set can be a missing piece, augmenting and enhancing data already 
collected and used by workforce and economic development organizations. In other cases, the 
data has proved less reliable and incomplete, as well as unverifiable and less shareable, because 
of its proprietary content. 
One theme that emerged during the pilot is the overall inconsistency of state and regional 
contact databases and the incomplete identification of businesses within customer relationship 
management platforms. In some cases, D&B tools were able to identify many businesses that 
were missing in government and other stakeholder databases. In other cases, these databases 
contained businesses that the D&B tools missed. While none of these data sets should be 
perceived as all-inclusive, when merged or compared with one another they help build a more 
complete picture of Washington’s diverse business landscape. 
In response to the pandemic, D&B users immediately focused on industries and workers in 
particularly hard-hit sectors, using D&B tools to locate hotels, restaurants, bars, entertainment, 
retail and similar venues that had suddenly plunged into financial crisis after state-mandated 
shutdowns. Other efforts focused on identifying healthcare capacity and needs, evaluating 
diversity and equity impacts, finding personal protective equipment (PPE) manufacturers, and 
identifying businesses deemed “essential” and focusing on their immediate workforce needs—
from healthcare operations and childcare facilities to food processors and grocery stores. This 
information was utilized in different ways. For frontline rapid response and business outreach 
teams, it was used to analyze specific businesses and tailor messages around which services they 
were likely to need the most (such as educating businesses whether their employees qualified 
for a COVID-19 vaccine per the state’s requirements). The D&B data also helped provide a 
clearer picture of local labor markets, helping shape decisions on where to target resources. 
D&B’s tools were also able to help identify jobs in demand or decline, identify other occupations 
with similar skillsets, and find relevant individual job postings in the same area or identify local 
training options for specific skills. 

===== PAGE 31 =====
30   
 
This informed outreach resulted in positive outcomes for a number of projects, and hinted at the 
potential for expanded usage in the future. By identifying distressed businesses, for instance, 
local workforce and economic development partners were able to reach out proactively to 
provide assistance, keep businesses afloat, and avert layoffs. In other cases, frontline staff helped 
unemployed workers connect quickly with public supports within the workforce system to get 
them back to work sooner, or identify resources to sustain them and their families as the 
pandemic shuttered businesses and closed in-person learning at local schools. By identifying 
which employers were hiring and which skills were in demand at the local level, D&B users were 
better able to match worker skills with available jobs and adjust accordingly. As Washington’s 
economy continues to recover, these data-driven matches made possible by D&B tools have 
continued. 
D&B tools come with a learning curve, and some questions remain around the reliability of data 
and the methodology used in generating predictive variables. In some cases, reluctance over 
using D&B tools was so strong that those with licenses returned to previous data sets they 
considered more familiar and reliable. Whether or not this would change if users became more 
aware of specific strengths and capabilities of D&B relative to other tools remains to be seen. A 
possible solution to this challenge is for the state to fund full-time staff to master D&B tools 
(and other similar technical resources), and then act as advisors or facilitators of these tools to 
assist partners carry out data analyses. 
While some WDAs found marginal benefit to using D&B to supplement their ongoing existing 
efforts, others found the tools to be indispensable, with a few going so far as to indicate they 
would purchase the products on their own should the state choose not to fund the D&B 
products following the completion of this pilot project. 
Another benefit of using the D&B software was the opportunity for a shared experience among 
WDAs and other organizations across the state. However, because of the proprietary nature of 
the D&B data, they were only able to share if both they and their partners had licenses. In the 
current virtual climate, it is imperative that the state continues to look for opportunities to bring 
systems together. The state’s diversity in geography, demographics, and available resources all 
place different needs and expectations business and workforce support systems. Employing 
standardized data tools across the state would provide opportunities to share best practices of 
business engagement, and increase collaboration and connectivity between all workforce and 
economic development partners. 
Finally, although D&B data is imperfect and sometimes incomplete, it provides a lot of valuable 
information—including information for which some state agencies lack access. Over the course 
of the evaluation, smaller organizations with fewer resources found greater value in D&B tools, 
while larger state agencies and workforce partners generally favored their traditional, more 

===== PAGE 32 =====
31   
 
familiar, tools and data sources. If the state were to continue to invest in D&B tools, the primary 
beneficiaries and users, at least initially, would likely be smaller workforce and economic 
development organizations. That said, even large organizations found value in these tools 
during the evaluation period. When optimally utilized, D&B data supplemented the state’s 
existing databases, granting economic and workforce development professionals a more 
nuanced, multidimensional picture of the businesses they serve and clear opportunities to 
enhance their business engagement practices. 
 
 

===== PAGE 33 =====
32   
 
Appendix A 
The following projects show how D&B tools were used, and the effectiveness of those tools. 
While representative, this list is by no means a comprehensive list of initiatives undertaken using 
D&B data, both successfully and unsuccessfully over the past year. 
Department of Commerce Projects 
Project One 
Working Washington Round Three Grant Program: Commerce was tasked with a one-month 
turnaround time of distributing $100 million in emergency small business recovery grants to 
those hardest hit (as mandated by gubernatorial proclamations 20-25.8 and 20.25.9) through 
this program.  
Background: When tasked with quickly distributing emergency small business recovery funding 
set to expire in nearly one-months’ time, Commerce vetted applications using multiple 
resources, including D&B data. The application required applicants to have revenue of less than 
$5 million in 2019. Because it was too time intensive and demanding of staff resources during a 
very busy time of year to rely on only the Department of Revenue to vet such requirements, 
Commerce chose to check applicant’s revenue using D&B sales volume data as a proxy. The 
process was as follows over the course of three weeks: 
 
Commerce sent D&B applicant information daily (UBI, business name, and location). 
 
D&B matched applicants to their full-access database (not the WA database). 
 
D&B then posted a file with sales volume for all “matched” applicants to the WA 
database. 
 
Commerce downloaded the file and appended to applicants’ other information. 
 
Of the 15 percent without a match, Commerce sent to the Department of Revenue for 
review. 
 
Of the matches that showed over $5 million in revenue per the D&B database Commerce 
sent to DOR to confirm this was correct. 
Results: Without a DUNS number, it is difficult to query sets of specific businesses in either EV or 
MI. Thus, to match businesses, D&B used the address field, name, and several other factors. The 
full-access database had “matches” for approximately 85% of applicants in their full access 
database, compared to the data Commerce has access to (the D&B Washington database using 
EV and MI), which matched around 75% of businesses. 
When Commerce received information noting sales volume over $5 million in MI, Commerce 
performed a secondary check. Unfortunately, most of the businesses that D&B noted as having 
a sales volume of over $5 million actually posted revenue under that amount. All of the 

===== PAGE 34 =====
33   
 
businesses that Commerce identified through different processes as exceeding the $5 million 
threshold were listed as having less than that threshold in MI. 
Takeaway: Commerce has low confidence in the accuracy of D&B sales volume data for small 
businesses, especially those part of a franchise or who are considered a micro-business/sole 
proprietor. Without a DUNS number, it is difficult to query sets of specific businesses in either 
EV or MI. The D&B full-access database is more robust than the database that users have access 
to (the Washington database using MI and EV). Unfortunately, it is difficult to access data on 
small businesses in nearly any database, even across state agencies. 
Project Two 
Analysis of COVID-19 Effects on Business: The Washington Legislature passed a bill which 
appropriated $2.2 billion in federal funding that has been allocated to states in response to the 
ongoing COVID emergency. 
Background: Commerce used D&B data to gain knowledge about what communities and 
businesses have been hardest hit by the pandemic, and attempted to gauge the overall number 
and percent of businesses that have closed in Washington since the pandemic began. This was 
done to prepare to administer a new grant program with strict eligibility criteria distributing 
funds to businesses that had been temporarily closed since the beginning of the pandemic due 
to the governor’s public health measures. The two data points Commerce attempted to 
ascertain were (1) the number of small business closures, and (2) financial impact on small 
businesses. 
1. Background—Measuring Closures: Commerce worked with D&B representatives to find 
data that could potentially identify or indicate small business closures in Washington. 
The D&B database maintains businesses in the WA database that they consider “active.” 
(i.e., not closed). A business can become inactive if its address gets marked undeliverable 
by the post office, if previous financial activity ceases, if their phone line becomes 
disconnected, or other criteria consistently over a six-month period. Although “inactive 
businesses” are not accessible on the Washington database through EV and MI, they are 
accessible from D&B on the back-end. D&B engaged in a similar query12 for the 
California Economic Development Organization. Commerce asked D&B to provide a list 
of businesses that had become inactive since the start of the pandemic. 
Results: In February 2021, D&B had 15,000 businesses that had become inactive since 
the beginning of the pandemic from the Washington database. Overall, 4-5 percent of 
businesses from the Washington database had become inactive since the beginning of 
 
12 https://eastbayeda.org/covid-business-impacts/ 

===== PAGE 35 =====
34   
 
the pandemic. D&B representatives noted that this is roughly the same attrition rate as 
other years – maybe just a point higher. Almost every county showed between a 4%—
6% attrition rate. There was also little differentiation in the attrition rate by industry. 
These two data points lead Commerce to believe that the attrition rate was not actually 
reflective of businesses that have closed due to COVID-19 public health measures. 
When comparing the inactive businesses to each other, more information was gained 
(i.e., 38% of the “inactive businesses” were in King County, the most prevalent inactive 
NAICS code was the NAICS for “specialty physician”).  
As a follow-up, Commerce performed a spot-check of the businesses that D&B had 
marked as “inactive” and had also received a grant from the Working Washington 
Grants: Round 3 program. Nearly all of these businesses were still operating in some 
capacity—for example, many businesses became delivery only. Some (10%) of these 
businesses were “temporarily closed” according to their websites. When spot-checking 
the full list, a higher percentage of businesses appeared closed. 
Take Away: Small business closures is a very difficult thing to measure, especially in such 
turbulent economic times. There have been many studies since COVID-19 began with 
wide variations in their estimates of “closed business.” This is likely because a business 
may be temporarily closed, or operating, but has moved operations to an owner’s home 
or other non-traditional arrangement. A business may have also closed temporarily, re-
opened, then closed permanently, further convoluting the data picture. In addition to 
D&B data, Commerce used supplemented information from the Pulse Census Survey13 
(statewide, and NAICS 2 digit—not available at county level), and from the Opportunity 
Insights Economic Tracker14 (“closed” = no credit card transaction in two days)—both 
free and publicly available datasets. 
Background—Measuring Impact: Since the attempt to measure closures using D&B 
“inactive” businesses proved unsuccessful, Commerce sought to measure financial 
impact on small businesses in Washington using D&B’s “material change” predictive 
variable. 
Results: D&B does do not recommend aggregate analysis with their data over time. They 
recommend against this because their database is continuously growing due to 
 
13 https://www.census.gov/data/experimental-data-products/small-business-pulse-survey.html 
14 https://tracktherecovery.org/ 

===== PAGE 36 =====
35   
 
increased sophistication of their “business confirmation” tools. Each month, D&B is able 
to verify more businesses that exist than verify businesses that are inactive. 
Utilizing a targeted data base search, D&B was able review trends for certain businesses 
over time. For example, data identified 15,000 businesses that were growing in July 2020, 
but are in decline stages in January and suggested this group be prioritized for grant 
funding. 
Take-away: At the conclusion of this project Commerce felt that the real-time analysis 
they had hoped D&B could provide on small business impact from COVID-19 (business 
closures) did not meet their needs. In this instance D&B did not prove useful for overall 
economic analysis, or for reviewing trends in aggregate over time. However, D&B does 
provide value by providing financial analysis of certain businesses for which they have 
valid information over time. (i.e., the businesses that were growing in July but are 
declining in January). 
Project 3 
Identification of Candidates for the Thrive! And ScaleUp Business Development Programs 
Background: Thrive! and ScaleUp are business development programs administered by 
Commerce. Historically, Thrive! attracts around 20 participants per year but has capacity to 
support 25 participants. ScaleUp has about 100 participants per year. Candidates have typically 
been identified through a series of networks operated by partners including ADO’s, Chambers of 
Commerce, the Small Business Administration, and others. The manager of these programs was 
interested in exploring whether they could leverage D&B data to identify candidates for this 
program. However, due to COVID-19 constraints on staff time, the administrator was unable to 
dedicate time to learn how to use D&B products, leading to the project team to act as the 
primary support in providing the data. 
Thrive! is a program designed to assist second-stage companies (past the startup stage, but not 
yet mature) get “over the hump” to a position where they are able to expand and grow further. 
Candidates for Thrive! must meet the following criteria: 
 
Private, for-profit companies that have been operating in a Washington State community 
for at least two years. 
 
Employ between 6 and 99 employees (pre-COVID). 
 
Generate $1 million to $25 million in annual revenue (pre-COVID). 
 
Have both an appetite and aptitude to grow. 
 
Provide products and services beyond the local area. 

===== PAGE 37 =====
36   
 
ScaleUp is a partnership between Commerce, US Economic Development Administration (EDA), 
and Thurston EDC Center for Business Innovation. The goal of the program is to grow smaller 
“mom and pop” businesses into larger, more successful enterprises. The ideal candidate for 
ScaleUp is a president/owner of a Washington State business that has been in operation for two 
years and has annual pre-COVID revenues in excess of $100,000. 
Results: Given the wide parameters for these programs, the number of “eligible businesses” 
within the D&B database was initially overwhelming, but these were later narrowed down by 
introducing the following filters: 
1. Parse the list by county. 
2. Reduce the list by identifying a selection of NAIC codes to include. 
3. Reduce the list using the “low risk” financial stability score. 
4. Reduce the list using the “growth” material change score. 
Take-away: Using D&B to identify candidates for these small programs presents a challenge of 
receiving far more qualified candidates than can be accommodated by program of limited scale. 
While introducing more filters did produce a smaller, more serviceable list, Commerce had to 
rely on two proprietary predictive variables (#3 and #4). However, the uncertainty of the source 
and efficacy of the data due to its proprietary nature raised some concerns. Due to these 
constraints, it may be more useful to utilize D&B to market these programs, and vet applicants, 
rather than as a way to individually identify and contact candidates since there are far too many 
qualified candidates in Washington than the program could accommodate or vet. 
Additionally, there are significant barriers to tech novices using these tools, particularly when 
more filters and variables are introduced. While expert users may be able to efficiently perform 
these queries, new or part-time users may not be able to carry out these tasks. 
Other Smaller Commerce Projects 
Identification of clean energy businesses in Washington: The goal for this project was to develop 
a list of businesses that may be candidates for federal funding programs targeted to clean 
energy manufacturers. To do this, Commerce performed a simple search to identify businesses 
in certain NAICS codes in Washington, which yielded an easily searchable list and summary 
tables. Because these businesses are not generally very small, they are well represented in D&B 
data. This proved a strong use-case for the data. 
Identification of essential businesses for vaccine planning and distribution in Clallam and 
Jefferson counties: Commerce used NAICS codes to identify a list of essential businesses for 
vaccine planning and distribution (i.e., schools, grocery stores). This seems like a strong case for 

===== PAGE 38 =====
37   
 
using D&B data, although it was somewhat hampered by the small number of email addresses 
that were on file for these businesses (approximately 60 of 400). 
Identifying Minority- and Woman- Owned businesses within a County: A county government 
wanted data to create a picture of the current state of small business in their county, with a 
particular focus on firms owned by women, people of color, and small businesses categorized by 
sector and trend data. Commerce sent them D&B data on small businesses in the categories 
that they were interested in (under 100 employees, noting whether or not they were minority or 
woman owned). D&B only has a small percentage of minority- and woman-owned businesses 
identified on their file. Despite that limitation, the county found the data useful. 
Regional Distribution of Life Sciences Businesses: A request was made for regional distribution 
of life science businesses in Washington with certain NAICS codes. 
WDC Projects 
WDC Project 1: 
Identify distressed companies, and employ layoff aversion resources 
 
Background: The WDC used EV for layoff aversion actions by identifying the tipping point of a 
business where an intervention is most beneficial in terms of preventing layoffs or closure. 
 
Results: In one specific example, the WDC used EV and the filter features to uncover an 
Arlington, WA-based struggling sole source provider business, Senior AMT, and it’s 800 plus 
workers that were at significant risk. After reaching out to the business, the WDC was able to 
connect and implement a strategy two months before layoffs were to occur. At this point, the 
WDC helped the company file a WARN notice with ESD as well as facilitate three on site Rapid 
Response units. Additionally, in combination with local partners at the labor council, a Trade Act 
petition was filed and certified, allowing employees access to WIOA funds and other 
opportunities within the Trade Act. More than 200 employees were able to find new 
opportunities due to WDC efforts to align resources and other job openings to these at-risk 
employees with enough time to transition rather than continuing down the road to layoffs. 
 
Impact: The WDC, aided by D&B EV data, was able to identify the distressed company and help 
more than 200 workers with placement in new jobs and work opportunities. 
 
Take-away: The WDC indicated that D&B has been a very useful tool and provided a great boost 
forward identification and intervention of at-risk businesses. The effort to triage the struggling 
company was complimented by the collaborative efforts of other workforce partner agencies. 
Given the geographical proximity of the business and the employees, sharing knowledge and 
services between the partners benefited all involved and strengthened intergovernmental 
relationships. 
 

===== PAGE 39 =====
38   
 
The usage of D&B tools helped yield three definitive positive results from this project: 
1. Support for the company and its hundreds of employees. 
2. Leveraging federal programs like the Trade Act and WIOA. 
3. Creating synergy and connections with partners and other WDCs. 
 
Without the information provided by EV that identified the struggling company, it is likely that 
the outcome of the impacted employees would have been devastating. Instead, the company is 
still in business, many employees avoided layoffs and had other opportunities, and the WDC was 
able to provide a template for future outreach efforts utilizing D&B tools. 
WDC Project 2: 
Matching job seekers to businesses according to their skillsets 
 
Background: A key role of WDCs is to match job seekers to businesses by identifying the skills, 
competencies and abilities of workers with those required by employers. During COVID-19 and 
the unprecedented wave of business closures and layoffs, this role became more important than 
ever. Crucial WDC activities during the pandemic have centered on layoff service and aversion, 
rapid response, and orientation to WIOA programs. 
 
Results: Prior to gaining access to D&B tools, the WDC used INIS, ESD and other data but never 
had access to financial stress level information such as that provided by D&B. Instead, the WDC 
used retroactive information including newspapers and WorkSource intelligence (for instance, 
multiple former employees from the same company coming in to find new jobs). 
 
Impact: During the pandemic, the WDC was largely unable to place many job seekers in 
employment through data gleaned from EV, although this is largely due to the economic 
restrictions in place during this time. 
 
Take away: With EV, the WDC is able to identify suitable and available job seekers that are 
available to meet business’ needs. This has been very beneficial for both workers and businesses, 
producing a win-win situation. During the pandemic, the primary focus was on layoff aversion, 
but as COVID-19 restrictions are lifted, this will become more of a focus. This is a new strategy 
for the WDC. They expect that with the addition of a new Business Engagement Manager, they 
will utilize this data to benefit future job seekers in the future. 
 
WDC Project 3: 
Identifying PPP loan recipients and distressed businesses 
 
Background: COVID-19 and resulting social distancing measures have had a huge impact on the 
economy, spurring the federal government to provide assistance to businesses through 
measures including PPP loans. Businesses eligible to receive these loans must meet certain 
criteria, are often in financial distress, and may be eligible for further relief that they may or may 
not be aware of. 
 

===== PAGE 40 =====
39   
 
Once identified using the D&B PPP filter, the WDC began outreach and business engagement 
efforts. Rather than initiating a cold call to businesses in financial distress and risk a negative 
first contact experience, the WDC sent a non-specific letter or email that appeared to the 
targeted business to be a general informational message that details the resources available that 
are tailored to help these specific businesses. The goal was to identify businesses that may have 
temporarily averted layoffs with PPP loans, and engage businesses regarding layoff aversion 
services including SharedWork, Incumbent Worker Training, Customized Trainings Programs, 
and consultations. 
 
Results: The WDC, with assistance from project partners and D&B, utilized MI to generate a list 
of targeted businesses. Using the criteria of PPP recipients that received at least $150,000 in PPP 
loans, more than 1,100 businesses were listed. The list included phone numbers for almost all 
the businesses, but no email addresses. Other tools were used internally to identify email 
addresses of businesses. 
 
Impact: TBD 
 
Take away: This allowed the WDC to be more proactive in providing services. Overall, there are 
still mixed results in layoff aversion and business assistance, but that does not take away from 
the fact that the WDC was able to gain advanced warning of distress, and intervene. The 
information allowed the WDC to approach businesses even before they issue a WARN notice, 
enabling the WDC to send a rapid response team. Even in the worst case, this action can 
connect employees to workforce resources, training, and others assistance even before layoffs 
occur. The WDC can then provide services, and in some cases find new positions for workers 
very quickly. 
 
For businesses at low risk of layoffs and/or that are growing, the WDC is planning to use D&B 
intelligence to help develop pathways to hiring, business development, and otherwise adding 
value. This WDC recently hired a new business engagement staff member that will primarily be 
using D&B in their outreach efforts. These efforts include using EV long-term regardless of state 
decision. 
 
WDC Project 4: 
Economic development proposals for partners 
 
Not-For-Profit Employers in Puyallup-Sumner. 
 
Identifying Tech Employers in Tacoma. 
 
Identifying FinTech employers in a drive-time range. 
Background: This project was carried out by the WDC in conjunction with partner agencies 
including Chambers of Commerce, Economic Development Boards, and municipal governments. 
The goal of the project was to acquire economic and workforce information related to specific 
industry clusters. This information would then be used for business outreach efforts and 
strategic planning. 

===== PAGE 41 =====
40   
 
Results: The WDC was able to identify 147 not-for-profit employers with approximately 4,457 
employees. For the FinTech Proposal, the WDC identified 1,749 employers in King and Pierce 
County. However, the tech employers query produced an output was too broad to be 
meaningful and was not used. 
Impact: TBD 
Take-away: The WDC used the D&B data for business solutions with positive results. They were 
able to use this information to identify businesses that are growing, have a reduction in revenue, 
or are experiencing financial stress to target outreach efforts such as layoff aversion and other 
services. 
WDC Project 5: 
Internal regional economic and business analysis, including equity and diversity 
 
Review of priority sectors to see how representative they are of employers in the region. 
 
Review of businesses owned by minorities and women by region and industry. 
Background: The WDC used the D&B data for business solutions, workforce development and 
outreach. Specifically, the WDC was trying to discern how many of the region's employers fell 
within a specific industry sector (advanced manufacturing, ICT and cyber security, construction, 
military/defense, transportation warehousing & logistics, healthcare). 
Results: The WDC was able to assess the proportion of workforce represented by sector 
priorities with Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages (QCEW) data, but without D&B data, 
they were unable to accurately assess the proportion of employers represented in these industry 
sectors. The D&B helped frame the need for a sector priority update, and one that includes non-
industry framed definitions. 
The WDC found the following information from the D&B search  
Regional Count
Proportion of all Employers
Female
2188
5.70%
Minority
503
1.31%
 
Impact: The WDC ultimately did not use the data due to concerns about quality, specifically 
because the vast majority of records were unclassified.  
Take away: The takeaway was that the concentration of women- and minority-owned businesses 
is likely well below representative levels in the population and that there is much more work 
needed in this space. In Pierce County the concentrations of minority- or female-owned 
businesses was very low, both regionally and among employers represented by sector (there 

===== PAGE 42 =====
41   
 
was almost no difference in the rate). This information has helped the WDC to frame their 
outreach and recruitment efforts for new WDC board members, and has been a focus point as 
the WDC works to update these sector priorities. 
WDC Project 6: 
Email campaign to contact manufacturing companies in the region 
 
Background: The WDC wanted to identify manufacturing companies in its region due to 
increased hiring needs in the sector. The goal of the project was to identify as many 
manufacturing companies as possible, and add them to existing databases. This information 
could then be used for business outreach efforts to engage with businesses to provide needed 
services, and to increase awareness of the services offered by the Talent Solutions Team. 
Results: D&B identified manufacturers with email contacts and removed those already in the 
WDC’s existing customer relationship management (CRM) database. In the WDC’s first email 
campaign, initiated December 7, 2020, there were 82 successful email deliveries with a 14 
percent open rate. For the January 11, 2021, second round of email targeting those who did not 
open the initial email there were 64 successful email deliveries and a 6% open rate. 
Impact: The WDC was able to contact and engage a number of businesses that did not exist in 
their own CRM (see results above). A separate pilot of outreach to businesses with no prior 
interaction was not conducted side by side so the WDC was unable to provide comparative data. 
Take-away: The WDC did not receive a high level or response using the D&B tools compared to 
their own CRM and was reticent to use D&B data as a stand-alone tool for three main reasons. 
First, while the database contained a huge amount of information, not all of it was actionable in 
terms of utilizing it effectively for real-world outreach and engagement efforts. Second, not all 
the data was accurate (a company’s’ revenue, number of employees, contact data, for instance). 
Third, while the inclusion of the highest-ranking member of a business (such as a president, 
CEO, or owner) is generally included in D&B contact information, this can sometimes present 
problems with the contact being too far up the leadership ladder. As a result, email or phone 
contact efforts often went unrequited, with high-level personnel not responding to initial 
outreach communications where a lower-level employee may take more time and effort to 
respond to these queries. As a result of these challenges, using D&B data did not significantly 
improve response rates to outreach efforts. 
However, the WDC noted that D&B can identify many different businesses and categorize them 
by financial growth, financial distress, and other filters. The data was more useful than their CRM 
for more targeted searches, rather than blind cold calls to different companies. The WDC also 
found, D&B to be quite useful in taking a deep dive into specific companies compared with 

===== PAGE 43 =====
42   
 
other tools. Specific data and research resulting in a deep dive of a company was one of the 
most useful components where the data is useful for the WDC. 
However, WDC staff often employed other more familiar tools first before turning to D&B tools. 
Whether or not this prioritization would change if users became more aware of specific 
strengths and capabilities of D&B relative to other tools remains to be seen. 
WDC Project 7: 
Supporting businesses affected by COVID-19 social distancing measures 
 
Background: The goal of this initiative was to offer support to businesses most likely to be 
impacted by statewide restrictions to mitigate the spread of COVID-19. The WDC targeted 
specific industries by NAICS code with an email campaign to two distinct lists: 
1. D&B List—Not in the WDC’s Talent Solutions CRM (n=1,876 Targeted Businesses) 
2. Talent Solutions CRM list 
The WDC worked with D&B to identify companies operating in these industries, along with 
financial information on these companies including financial risk (low, medium, or high). 
Results: The WDC was able to get this campaign launched quickly, and found that both list 
groups had the same open rate. The results are as follows: 
 
D&B List—Not in Talent Solutions CRM (n=1,876 Targeted Businesses), yielded 42 
previously unknown email addresses. The email campaign resulted in 12 bounces and 29 
successful deliveries with a 17 percent open rate. 
 
Talent Solutions CRM List contained 158 email addresses. The email campaign resulted 
in four bounces and 154 successful deliveries, with an identical 17 percent open rate. 
Impact: The WDC was able to contact and engage 42 new businesses that did not exist in their 
own CRM (see results above). 
Take away: The WDC expanded its CRM to include the new contacts, and open new businesses 
for outreach efforts, but to a limited effect. 
WDC Project 8: 
Quality Job Initiative 
 
The quality jobs initiative endeavors to identify employers that provide “quality job” 
opportunities. 
 

===== PAGE 44 =====
43   
 
Background: The WDC’s quality jobs initiative seeks to identify specific “high quality” jobs and 
their employers for the purpose of outreach and to identify best practices. These characteristics 
include paying family-sustaining wages, operating under diverse ownership and/ or staff, 
providing benefits, are family friendly, providing internal promotion opportunities, and other 
characteristics identified in Aspen Institute studies. These scores can then be used to create 
different categories of businesses (for example gold, silver, and bronze rankings). This initiative 
is being undertaken in conjunction with the neighboring city of Portland, Oregon. 
 
Results: At the time of the publication of this report, the quality jobs initiative was in its early 
stages of inviting relevant companies to a listening session. Future analysis of this industry 
subsector could be used to analyze comparative trends related to business performance, 
workforce retention, and wages. 
 
Impact: TBD 
 
Take-away: D&B has been a very useful tool to identify and categorize targeted businesses, and 
provided a great boost forward in the early stages of this initiative. 
 
WDC Project 9: 
Strategic Financial analysis of regional distressed industries 
 
Background: This WDC used D&B for a wide variety of projects in both data analytics and 
business identification and outreach capacities. The intention was to use this analysis to help 
inform broader strategic planning, and to help guide business engagement and outreach efforts. 
 
The project was intended to identify specific professions and business segments that were under 
duress. This included searching for any businesses in financial distress or in danger of having to 
lay off workers, and also targeting specific sectors or industries that are known to be particularly 
hard by the pandemic and social distancing measures. 
 
Results: Using D&B, the WDC was able to track economic trends throughout the pandemic and 
look for changes. Financial health indicators in particular proved useful in looking for changes in 
business activity and acted as a proxy warning of possible business closures. Once identified, 
these businesses could then be approached by business outreach teams to provide available 
assistance. 
 
Impact: TBD 
 
Take away: This WDC found significant value in the D&B tools, particularly in the MI product. 
They found two distinct advantages to the D&B products relative to other public and private 
data sources and tools. The first of these is the unique ability of D&B tools to drill down to get 
to a wide variety of establishment (individual company)—level data. This was then used to 
enhance business engagement by providing contact lists for relevant companies, or carry out 
analyses at lower levels of aggregation for use in higher-level strategic planning and outreach. 

===== PAGE 45 =====
44   
 
The second key advantage was timeliness. While many public data sources may be updated 
quarterly, many are much more latent with lag times stretching out to six months, a year, and 
even longer. This delay can be the difference between providing a lifeline for a struggling 
business or enacting layoff aversion measures and a company going out of business. D&B 
products have a much shorter data refresh timeframe, with MI updating monthly, and EV 
updating quarterly. 
 
One major constraint to using publicly available data is privacy, which compels sources to 
anonymize data and even omit data for certain companies if their size, scale or operations would 
essentially reveal their identity. This occurs often down to the establishment level and can have 
the effect of suppressing more detailed data around specific companies or entire industries in 
some cases. D&B’s attraction in this context was that EV and MI provided a lot of granular data 
related to specific industries that is generally not available for other similar products or publicly 
available data. Generally, other sources have more a lot of data related to job seekers, but much 
less for employers. 
 
WDC Project 10: 
Pre- and Post-pandemic comparison of businesses 
 
Background: The WDC used D&B to do a deep dive into businesses in the WDC region to 
determine if there was a significant drop-off in business, or a spike in closures and/ or layoffs in 
2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. In this region, agriculture and food processing/ 
packaging industries were hit particularly hard. As a result, the demand for state and federal 
assistance programs likewise increased, and the departments and agencies responsible for 
outreach and assistance require accurate information to identify eligible businesses and workers 
in need of assistance. The results were intended to be shared with partner agencies, including 
county commissioners, to help plan for shifts in social service allocations including TNF, 
unemployment insurance, and others. 
 
Impact: The WDC worked directly with D&B representatives to build this report. The results of 
the report indicated that numerous businesses in the area had indeed closed during this time 
period. Specifically, the report revealed that: 
 
 
1,114 businesses were removed (presumed closed) from the database in 2020. 
 
Essential businesses comprised the highest percentage (29 percent). 
 
The majority of closures occurred in Q1, 2020. 
 
Agriculture, forestry, fishing & hunting businesses had the highest number of closures 
(13 percent of the total). 
 
This business closure data was then broken down by categories including: the quarter in which 
they were removed from the active database, county, essential business category, 2-digit 
industry NAICS code, and industry grouping. 
 

===== PAGE 46 =====
45   
 
Take-away: The WDC indicated that the reports provided value in providing a more accurate 
picture of businesses in the region. The WDC would like to have access to these reports on a 
quarterly basis tied to specific sectors: construction, agriculture, healthcare, manufacturing, and 
warehousing and distribution. This information would add value by revealing what businesses 
are in medium stress or high stress, so the WDC could then conduct Rapid Response services 
prior to business closures and/or layoffs. However, the WDC did note that they would be unable 
to compile these reports on their own due to limited staff resources, and would therefore need 
assistance to fully utilize D&B tools. 
 
WDC Project 11: 
Economic analysis of regional health care industry 
 
Background: The COVID-19 pandemic and ensuing social distancing measures have had uneven 
impacts even within industries and sector groups. This includes the health care sector, where 
demand for health care professionals in primary care roles increased, while other services 
deemed less essential such as private doctors, dentists, optometrists, etc. suffered through 
business closures. 
 
This project was intended to identify specific professions and business segments within the 
health care industry which were under duress. 
 
Impact: TBD 
 
Take-away: The WDC used D&B data to highlight areas of concern such as specific physicians’ 
offices that were in distress as well as detailed related job losses in these areas. At the time of 
publication, this project was in the early stages, and will be shared later with the WDC’s business 
and education partners. 
 
WDC Project 12: 
Identifying PPE producers in this region 
 
Background: COVID-19 brought unprecedented demand for PPE in Washington and around the 
world. In order to identify theses manufactures in their region, the WDC used D&B data to 
acquire contacts for an email blast to PPE producers. 
 
Results: Using D&B data base to identify PPE producers in the area, 95% of the list that was 
generated was new to the WDC. These 1,200 businesses were narrowed down to 550, which was 
further refined to approximately 330 emails to these businesses. Although the WDC received a 
roughly 20 percent bounce back on the email campaign (similar to results from comparable 
contact lists), the exercise did identify previously unknown companies  
 
Impact: TBD 
 

===== PAGE 47 =====
46   
 
Take-away: The D&B database successfully identified previously unknown businesses in the PPE 
sector, resulting in increased engagement and expanded database. 
 
WDC Project 13: 
Virtual Job Fairs 
 
Background: Unprecedented levels of unemployment claims have highlighted the need to get as 
many workers back into the workforce as fast as possible. The WDC employed D&B data and 
reports to identify trends in in-demand jobs ahead of its Health Care Industry job fair. The WDC 
also used EV to match registered participants to a DUNS Number to do additional analysis of 
these employers. This would enable the WDC to better tailor services and job candidates to 
businesses’ needs. 
 
Results: TBD—At the time of publication the job fair had not taken place yet. 
Impact: TBD 
 
Take Away: TBD 
 
Other Projects: 
 
Economic Recovery Plan (ERP) 
 
Background: In response to COVID-19 and with lockdown measures fully in place 
starting in March 2020, the Workforce Board was tasked by Governor Inslee to develop 
the workforce development component of Washington’s post-pandemic Economic 
Recovery Plan (ERP). The ERP included analysis of pre- and post-pandemic economic 
and workforce trends. In order to fulfill this, the Workforce Board research team used MI 
to identify firms that were experiencing financial distress. The team pulled data from the 
most current month, May 2020, and utilized filters to find companies that were under 
“high financial stress.” The analysis also focused on specific industries that were 
experiencing higher levels of unemployment as indicated by unemployment data from 
ESD. These industries included construction, accommodation and food services, retail, 
healthcare, and manufacturing. 
Impact: The Workforce Board was able to utilize D&B tools, along with other data 
sources, to provide a more accurate and timelier picture of the state’s economy. This in 
turn helped to inform the ERP recommendations to focus resources where they were 
needed most. 

===== PAGE 48 =====
47   
 
Take-away: While MI was able to help identify these businesses and occupations, it was 
limited in comparing these trends to earlier historical trends due to the D&B limitations 
of data going back for a total of seven quarters. 
The Workforce Board also sees potential value in the D&B toolkit through access to its 
database, specifically the contact information. As part of its operations, the Workforce 
Board regularly engages in surveys such as the Washington Employer Survey and Youth 
Employment Report to better ascertain the needs, wants and demands of the 
Washington businesses it serves. In the past, contact lists have been procured at 
significant costs to the Workforce Board on a one-off basis. This is in part because 
government agencies are prohibited from using their databases in this manner due to 
privacy needs. Having ongoing access to the D&B database, which the Workforce Board 
views as at least comparable if not more effective than previous lists acquired from third 
parties, would thus reduce the need to purchase this data in the future. Although the 
Workforce Board did not carry out any of these surveys during the course of the pilot 
project due to a reallocation of resources during the pandemic, these expenditures will 
be required as the economy returns to a new normal. 
 
 

===== PAGE 49 =====
48   
 
Appendix B 
Employment Security Department Regional Economics and high-level data observations 
As part of the D&B project, the Employment Security Department (ESD) explored the usage of 
the D&B data and products by allocating licenses to Labor Market and Economic Analysis 
(LMEA) division’s regional economists.15 This was a natural fit as they work closely with WDCs 
and are often confronted with issues (restrictions on data sharing, and a time lag on data 
collection from some sources, for instance) surrounding data sharing and working with data 
collaboratively. The use of the D&B data by both regional economists and the WDCs could serve 
to streamline data sharing between the two, which has traditionally been restricted due to data 
sharing constraints. 
LMEA regional economists appreciate the need for alternative data sources to supplement the 
existing data they currently use. Due to the nature and complexity of ESD labor market data, the 
availability of the data often lags months, quarters, or even longer, after the reporting period. 
This is especially challenging during an unprecedented pandemic as the need for data is 
imperative for understanding the current economic condition and forward-looking strategic 
goals. Given the multitude of supplemental alternative data sources available, they must balance 
working with the using alternative sources they may be less familiar with against trusted ESD 
LMEA data. Failing to do this potentially negates or devalues the data and analysis produced 
and reported by reginal economists and ESD. During the evaluation program WDCs and other 
workforce partners sought alternative data sources to support their COVID-19 triage efforts, 
including grant writing that required specific data to support these applications. Although the 
intent may be viewed as means to an end, there is concern that the use of alternative sources 
(including D&B) are not given equal footing as the LMEA data. This is particularly pertinent when 
alternative data is incongruent with traditional LMEA data sources. 
In spite the potential benefits of utilizing D&B tools to complement other available data sources, 
the impacts of COVID-19 significantly reduced and restricted ESD’s planned engagement and 
participation in the project. Many of the regional economists prioritized their time serving their 
customers and constituents through production of additional datasets, analysis, and 
presentations of ESD labor market data and information, and other communications to help 
explain and understand the current economic conditions caused by COVID-19. Furthermore, 
 
15 Regional economists participated in both the 90-Day pilot and the year-long project. Doug Tweedy 
(Ferry, Lincoln, Pend Oreille, Spokane, Stevens, and Whitman counties) contributed during the 90-Day 
pilot whereas Anneliese Vance-Sherman (Island, King, San Juan, Skagit, Snohomish and Whatcom 
counties) and Scott Bailey (Clark, Cowlitz, Klickitat, Skamania and Wahkiakum counties) contributed during 
the year-long project. 

===== PAGE 50 =====
49   
 
many WDCs were not able to invest time and resources into learning and using the D&B data or 
software, and as a result there was no demand for the regional economist to use the same D&B 
data or software as the WDC, as originally planned. 
Comparison of D&B and existing ESD data sets: 
Comparing LMEA’s Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages (QCEW) to the D&B tools sheds 
lights on differences between the two datasets. The QCEW is a cooperative federal and state 
program that measures employment and wages in industries covered by unemployment 
insurance. The data is collected by ESD from quarterly unemployment tax forms filed by 
employers and through surveys of employers who have more than one worksite in the state. 
Due to the complexity and size of this dataset, data is typically released seven months after the 
end of each quarter (for example, in April 2020, the most recent QCEW file was the 2020 Q3 
“preliminary” report). The D&B data, on the other hand, is updated monthly. The tables below 
show the comparison of the high-level summaries of firms and employees from both the QCEW 
report and D&B data. The QCEW totals are expressed as a three-month average for the quarter 
whereas the D&B data is the sum of firms and employees for Washington State within the D&B 
data cloud as of April 2021. This is not an apples-to-apples comparison between the two 
datasets, but instead shows differences of the firms, employees, and industries based on the 
most up-to-date data from each source. 
 
The table on the left compares all the firms and employees in the QCEW data to D&B data, 
which includes many firms with a single employee. The table on the right compares the firms 
and employees in the QCEW data to D&B data that have more than one employee. In both 
cases (all firms and firms > 1 emp), D&B’s data contains higher number of firms (43-88 percent 
more) and employees (18-22 percent more). 
 
All NAICS
Firms
Employees
All NAICS
Firms
Employees
QCEW
232,677
  
3,252,939
 
QCEW
232,677
  
3,252,939
  
D&B (All firms)
438,438
  
3,953,151
 
D&B (firms > 1 emp)
331,917
  
3,848,316
  
Difference from QCEW
205,761
  
700,212
    
Difference from QCEW
99,240
    
595,377
     
% Difference from QCEW
88%
22%
% Difference from QCEW
43%
18%
NAICS 11: Agriculture*
Firms
Employees
NAICS 31-33 Manifacturing
Firms
Employees
QCEW
6,713
      
120,258
    
QCEW
7,590
      
264,481
     
D&B (firms > 1 emp)
6,504
      
50,081
      
D&B (firms > 1 emp)
13,497
    
382,265
     
Difference from QCEW
-209
-70,177
Difference from QCEW
5,907
      
117,784
     
% Difference from QCEW
-3%
-58%
% Difference from QCEW
78%
45%

===== PAGE 51 =====
50   
 
*NAICS 11 includes agriculture, forestry, fishing, and hunting. 
The two tables above show the difference between the totals from the QCEW and the D&B data 
at the two-digit NAICS level. Although the number of firms is comparable between the QCEW 
and D&B for NAICS 11 (a difference of 209 firms, or 3 percent), the difference between the 
number of employees is significant (70,177 or 58 percent). Substantial discrepancies likewise 
exist for NAICS 31-33: manufacturing. In this sector, data showed 5,907 more firms (78 percent) 
and 117,784 (45 percent) more employees in the D&B data compared to the QCEW data. 
This comparison of the data is not to suggest the D&B data is inherently inaccurate. However, 
the significant differences between the number of firms, employees, and distribution throughout 
industries, must be understood by a user conducting analysis based on these variables, as there 
will likely be significant differences between D&B and QCEW data. This also highlights the 
position of regional economists, whom generally prefer and prioritize what they regard as more 
reliable and consistent, but less timely, QCEW data over other more current alternative data 
sources, including D&B. 
Proprietary predictive variables 
During the initial 90-day pilot, regional economists provided insight regarding the software and 
specific attributes of the D&B data, specifically using EV. Positive feedback was given to the 
user-friendly interface and intuitive nature of EV, and the fact that the basics could be picked up 
rather quickly. However, there were also concerns regarding the predictive variables (such as the 
Financial Stress Score (FSS) and Growth Scores) and that the model does not account for the 
specific attributes of Washington State as the modeling is conducted at a national level and 
does not incorporate regional factors. 
The predictive variables created by D&B are proprietary, which prevents the disclosure of their 
methodology and calculations to the user for analysis and understanding. This includes the 
disclosure of error rates and the frequency of error rates, preventing a clear understanding of 
the reliability of the data. Furthermore, the FSS is expressed in the data as either “High, Medium, 
or Low”, which was viewed as too broad to be effective in some analysis. Cumulatively, the 
proprietary nature of the variable and broad classification of the calculation brings the validity 
and usage of the variable into question. 
D&B’s data modelling at a national level was another potential concern. The issue is the national 
perspective fails to account for Washington State’s high percentage of employers that 
experience seasonality, such as agriculture and manufacturing, which would give these regions a 
higher error rate and thus decrease the reliability of the data. Again, without the ability to 
understand all the inputs into the calculations and the data, it is difficult for regional economists 

===== PAGE 52 =====
51   
 
to put the data from D&B on an equal footing as other sources of data, especially those with an 
historic track record and clear understanding of the data and inputs (i.e., QCEW). 
Dynamic updates 
Another attribute of the D&B data is the dynamic updates and additions to the data that are 
implemented as needs change and information becomes available. One example of this was the 
Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loan data that became available during the first few months 
of the pandemic. D&B matched data provided by the U.S. Department of Treasury to their data 
using a multiple variable comparison (i.e., name, zip code, NAICS code), but only for those 
receiving loans above $150,000. Matching these firms to existing D&B data provides access to 
all data associated with that firm in the D&B universe, including FSS and Growth Scores. 
However, if process is performed by matching data based on key terms, it can result in 
unmatched firms (both those that are present in the D&B database and those that are not), and 
incorrectly matched firms. Out of the 15,849 firms that received a PPP loan above $150,000, 
12,018 were matched in the D&B system. This is a 75.8 percent matching rate and some of these 
matches included incorrectly matched firms. If a user is unaware of this, they could assume that 
the 12,018 in the D&B data represented all the businesses that received PPP loans above 
$150,000, when in reality this only represents just over three quarters of the businesses that 
received such a loan. 
ESD Regional Economics outlook for D&B 
D&B produces data that shows businesses and industries (and other attributes) across different 
geographical areas. This data includes typical features of businesses as well predictive variables 
to assist in this filtering and or fine tuning of searches for businesses. However, this data is 
substantially different than current data produced by ESD within LMEA. The needs of the user 
and the goal of the work will greatly influence which of the two datasets may be preferred. If 
looking at time series data and trends of industries and employment across the state, QCEW 
data would be preferred. If attempting to produce a list of businesses in a particular county with 
the greatest likelihood of going out of business, D&B data would be preferred. Both ESD and 
D&B data are tools, and like all tools, the needs and requirements of the project dictates which 
type of tool to be used. 
 
