
===== PAGE 1 =====
Finance and Economics Discussion Series
Divisions of Research & Statistics and Monetary Aﬀairs
Federal Reserve Board, Washington, D.C.
An Assessment of the National Establishment Time Series
(NETS) Database
Keith Barnatchez, Leland D. Crane, and Ryan A. Decker
2017-110
Please cite this paper as:
Barnatchez, Keith, Leland D. Crane, and Ryan A. Decker (2017). “An Assessment of the
National Establishment Time Series (NETS) Database,” Finance and Economics Discus-
sion Series 2017-110.
Washington: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System,
https://doi.org/10.17016/FEDS.2017.110.
NOTE: Staﬀworking papers in the Finance and Economics Discussion Series (FEDS) are preliminary
materials circulated to stimulate discussion and critical comment. The analysis and conclusions set forth
are those of the authors and do not indicate concurrence by other members of the research staﬀor the
Board of Governors. References in publications to the Finance and Economics Discussion Series (other than
acknowledgement) should be cleared with the author(s) to protect the tentative character of these papers.

===== PAGE 2 =====
An Assessment of the National Establishment Time Series
(NETS) Database
Keith Barnatchez, Leland D. Crane, and Ryan A. Decker∗
October 27, 2017
Abstract
The National Establishment Time Series (NETS) is a private sector source of U.S.
business microdata. Researchers have used state-speciﬁc NETS extracts for many years,
but relatively little is known about the accuracy and representativeness of the nation-
wide NETS sample. We explore the properties of NETS as compared to ofﬁcial U.S.
data on business activity: The Census Bureau’s County Business Patterns (CBP) and
Nonemployer Statistics (NES) and the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ Quarterly Census of
Employment and Wages (QCEW). We ﬁnd that the NETS universe does not cover the
entirety of the Census-based employer and nonemployer universes, but given certain
restrictions NETS can be made to mimic ofﬁcial employer datasets with reasonable pre-
cision. The largest differences between NETS employer data and ofﬁcial sources are
among small establishments, where imputation is prevalent in NETS. The most stringent
of our proposed sample restrictions still allows scope that covers about three quarters of
U.S. private sector employment. We conclude that NETS microdata can be useful and
convenient for studying static business activity in high detail.
1
Introduction
We explore the representativeness of the National Establishment Time Series (NETS), a pri-
vate sector source of business microdata, relative to ofﬁcial U.S. business universe data
∗Barnatchez is a student at Colby College. Crane and Decker are economists at the Federal Reserve Board.
Bo Yeon Jang provided excellent research assistance. Without implication, we thank Maria Tito for helpful
conversations. The analysis and conclusions set forth are those of the authors and do not indicate concurrence
by other members of the Federal Reserve research staff or the Board of Governors.
1

===== PAGE 3 =====
sources: The Census Bureau’s County Business Patterns (CBP) and Nonemployer Statis-
tics (NES) and the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ (BLS) Quarterly Census of Employment and
Wages (QCEW). A key purpose of the present note is to provide background for the exer-
cises described in Crane et al. (2017), which uses 2014 NETS data to estimate ﬂood exposure
during and after Hurricane Harvey, but our analysis will be useful for potential NETS users
more broadly.
NETS consists of establishment-level longitudinal microdata covering, in principle, the
universe of U.S. businesses. Though costly, NETS can be accessed without extensive pro-
posal and security clearance processes and can be used outside of secure government facil-
ities, potentially providing a highly efﬁcient way to conduct research on topics that require
business-level microdata. However, NETS data are not generated by the rigorous processes
that characterize ofﬁcial data collection activities of U.S. statistical agencies, and compar-
isons of NETS to ofﬁcial sources have raised questions about the speciﬁc business universe
covered by the data as well as the quality of annual-frequency information on establishment-
level entry, exit, and employment (see, e.g., Haltiwanger et al. (2013) and Neumark et al.
(2005), which we discuss further below).
A number of studies have documented properties of NETS in limited, single-state sam-
ples. Fewer studies have used the full national NETS ﬁle, and these studies typically restrict
the national ﬁle to a subset that can be matched to external data samples. Using national
NETS data for 1992-2014, we highlight previous concerns about the precise nature of the
NETS business universe, document limitations in terms of imputation and other data arti-
facts, and outline speciﬁc sample restriction criteria that render NETS reasonably compara-
ble to ofﬁcial sources for the purpose of studying static business distributions. In related
work in progress not reported here, we ﬁnd that NETS is much more limited in its value for
studying business dynamics.
After applying appropriate sample selection criteria, we ﬁnd that the correlation of NETS
employment counts and CBP employment counts across U.S. counties can be in excess of
2

===== PAGE 4 =====
0.99. Correlations across state-industry-size class cells are somewhat lower but are still
above 0.9 on restricted samples. Zip code-level correlations are also remarkably high. That
said, we ﬁnd several discrepancies between NETS and the other data sources. NETS heavily
over-represents establishments with fewer than 10 employees relative to ofﬁcial employer
business data, possibly due to the imputation of positive employment to nonemployers in
NETS. We also ﬁnd smaller but signiﬁcant discrepancies among the largest establishments,
likely due in part to large, public educational establishments that are difﬁcult to identify
as government owned, as well as establishments that mistakenly report ﬁrm employment
numbers in NETS. Finally, post-2000 developments in U.S. mining, construction, and man-
ufacturing employment do not appear to be well captured in NETS, though these discrep-
ancies may be due in part to industry labeling differences. When we omit very small es-
tablishments, NETS agrees reasonably well with CBP and QCEW, both in terms of trends
over time and in terms of the cross section, and we ﬁnd better agreement still when we
omit the largest establishments and educational establishments. This most restrictive sam-
ple accounts for 73 percent percent of US employment in the QCEW. We propose that any
NETS results be checked on both the unrestricted sample and the restricted sample to ensure
robustness.
The paper proceeds as follows. Section 2 describes NETS and the related literature. Sec-
tion 3 contains the main results, and Section 4 concludes. Additional tables and ﬁgures, as
well as details regarding CBP and QCEW, are found in the appendices.
2
NETS background
NETS is a product of Walls & Associates. The source data for NETS are collected by Dunn
& Bradstreet (D&B) for the Duns Marketing Information ﬁle (DMI; see Walls (2008)). D&B
uses and sells the data for, among other things, marketing and credit scoring. While there
is no legal obligation for establishments to participate or report truthfully, D&B has strong
proﬁt-based incentives to compile accurate data, and individual businesses’ access to credit
3

===== PAGE 5 =====
and other business relationships may depend on the quality of the information they pro-
vide. D&B attempts to collect information on all U.S. businesses from secretaries of state,
Yellow Pages, court records, and credit inquiries, as well as other sources. They also con-
tact businesses directly by telephone. Each establishment is assigned a unique dunsnumber,
which is constant over time and follows the business when it moves or when it is acquired
by another ﬁrm. D&B also attempts to link establishments to ﬁrms; NETS ﬁles include an
hqduns number for each establishment, which is the dunsnumber of the ultimate domestic
headquarters.1
While D&B concepts are not as rigidly deﬁned as concepts used by statistical agencies,
a reasonable assessment is that D&B attempts to catalog every business establishment in
the U.S., where “business” is broadly deﬁned to include private for-proﬁt and nonproﬁt
organizations as well as government agencies. In NETS, an establishment is a speciﬁc line
of business at a speciﬁc location (see below), and employment includes all workers at an
establishment, potentially including proprietors, independent contractors, and temporary
workers supplied by outside organizations. While this broad scope suits D&B business
purposes well, it can be difﬁcult to reconcile with well-deﬁned universe concepts employed
by U.S. statistical agencies; as we show below, though, NETS data are sufﬁciently detailed to
allow approximation of standard business scope deﬁnitions. For example, the NETS line of
business concept is a subset of standard establishment concepts in ofﬁcial sources, in which
an establishment includes all workers at a speciﬁc business location (and, hence, is the sum
of all lines of business in operation at that location).2
An additional difference between NETS and ofﬁcial sources is that ofﬁcial sources record
establishment existence and employment on speciﬁed, uniform dates (for example, the pay
period including March 12). NETS records are annual, but information is collected through-
out the year, and the timing of measurement for each establishment is not reported in the
1There is no information in our ﬁles on the intermediate layers of the ﬁrm. Hqduns points to the highest-level
headquarters within the U.S., never to, e.g., the regional headquarters of the ﬁrm.
2In our baseline results, we merge NETS lines of business to better approximate the CBP/QCEW establish-
ment concept. All of our qualitative conclusions are unchanged if instead we use the separate lines of business.
4

===== PAGE 6 =====
data. This is not only a source of micro-level measurement error but also a likely cause of
discrepancies between NETS aggregates and ofﬁcial data sources.
Besides ﬁrm linkages, D&B collects and constructs numerous establishment characteris-
tics; for our purposes, the most important are employment, industry, and location (address).
Notably, establishment employment generally includes the ﬁrm owner(s). Employment in-
formation usually comes from direct inquiries by D&B, unless it is imputed (employment
imputation codes are included in NETS ﬁles, and we discuss imputation rates below). In-
dustry is generally either self reported by the business or drawn from Secretaries of State
data. Industry is available as 8-digit SIC or 6-digit NAICS codes, though there are no im-
putation codes for industry information. Address information may be self reported or col-
lected from administrative-type records such as Yellow Pages and includes street address,
zip code, state and county, as well as latitude and longitude.
2.1
Related Literature
NETS data have been used in a number of studies. A key reference is Neumark et al. (2005),
which provides a detailed discussion of the history of D&B data collection, and then com-
pares California NETS data to several ofﬁcial sources. Neumark et al. (2005) appears to be
the source of the rules of thumb that (a) the employer universe can be approximated by sub-
tracting 1 from all NETS establishments’ employment, and (b) business dynamics are best
studied at 3-year frequency instead of annually (in a companion paper, we further explore
business dynamics in NETS). A number of subsequent studies adopt these conventions. In
their California sample, Neumark et al. (2005) ﬁnd that total NETS employment is not dra-
matically different from the sum of UI-based employer establishment count measures and
the Census Bureau’s nonemployer counts (as we detail below, though, in the national sam-
ple we ﬁnd that total NETS employment is consistently between the size of the employer
universe and the union of employer and nonemployer universes, a concern noted by Halti-
wanger et al. (2013)). Moreover, the authors report high correlations of employment levels
5

===== PAGE 7 =====
between NETS and ofﬁcial employer datasets at the county-by-industry level and, to a some-
what lesser extent, the industry-by-size level. Consistent with the notion that NETS includes
a large number of nonemployer businesses, the authors show that differences between NETS
and employer datasets are heavily concentrated in small establishment size classes, particu-
larly the 1-4 employee class. Importantly, Neumark et al. (2005) ﬁnd considerable evidence
of rounding (to the nearest 10 or 5) in NETS employment numbers; moreover, the authors
document a signiﬁcant amount of employment imputation, particularly in establishments’
early years in the data, and they show that annual changes in industry-by-county employ-
ment are only weakly correlated between QCEW and NETS (correlation 0.53).3 A handful
of subsequent studies by Neumark and coauthors rely on the California NETS sample (e.g.,
Kolko and Neumark (2010)). Neumark et al. (2011) study business growth in the national
sample of NETS but refer to the previous California-based results for background on repre-
sentativeness.
Another key reference for understanding representativeness in NETS is Choi et al. (2013)
(and the follow-up paper Choi et al. (2017)), which uses the Georgia NETS extract. The au-
thors focus primarily on comparisons with CBP and, importantly, use industry codes, estab-
lishment size, and legal status criteria to create a NETS universe that is roughly consistent
with CBP scope. We follow a similar approach in the present study, creating a NETS sample
that is restricted to match CBP scope as closely as possible. Another signiﬁcant investigation
is Echeverri-Carroll and Feldman (2017), who use secretary of state data for Austin, Texas
and the North Carolina Research Triangle to validate NETS founding dates; after exten-
sive efforts using automated and hand matching, the authors ﬁnd that about half of NETS
founding dates match secretary of state founding dates (which reﬂect business formation
applications), with 75 percent of matches being accurate within two years and 80 percent of
3Three-year changes in industry-by-county employment have a correlation of 0.86. Neumark et al. (2005)
further study the business dynamics properties of NETS by obtaining founding date data on two sets of busi-
nesses (San Francisco phone listings and BioAbility biotech records) and comparing these external data sources
with NETS. The authors ﬁnd that NETS founding dates are accurate about three quarters of the time and are
within two years of accuracy about 90 percent of the time; they do not investigate ﬁrm size at birth.
6

===== PAGE 8 =====
matches being accurate within three years. These results conﬁrm the concerns of Neumark
et al. (2005) and Haltiwanger et al. (2013) about recognition of founding dates and annual-
frequency dynamics.4 A particularly important contribution of Echeverri-Carroll and Feld-
man (2017) is the direct comparison of two different NETS vintages, allowing for a study of
revision history; the authors ﬁnd signiﬁcant establishment additions between the 2013 and
2014 NETS vintages, with large revisions extending back more than four years from the end
of the time series. This suggests the need for caution in interpreting data near the end of a
NETS sample (the authors argue for dropping the last two years of coverage).5
Exploration of the national NETS sample has been more limited. Mach and Wolken
(2012) use NETS along with the Survey of Small Business Finance (SSBF), which uses the
DMI as its sampling frame; the authors restrict attention to NETS records matched to the
2004 SSBF sample, and they note that there are some employment discrepancies between
NETS and D&B-based SSBF data. Amezcua (2010) uses the national NETS ﬁle but restricts
it to records that can be identiﬁed as startup incubators (relying in part on external data).
Acs et al. (2008) use the DMI ﬁles on which NETS is based, constructing their own longitu-
dinal version of the data and studying high-growth ﬁrms. In principle this independently
constructed longitudinal ﬁle should be similar to NETS, though no direct comparison has
been undertaken. These authors rely heavily on business dynamics data in the DMI, rais-
ing some concerns based on high-frequency limitations of the data found in other studies.
Greenstone and Mas (2012) use an extract of the national NETS ﬁle, providing some limited
comparisons with ofﬁcial sources, though they switch to the LBD in subsequent revisions
(Greenstone et al. (2014)).
Aside from the above, we are not aware of any signiﬁcant attempts to benchmark the
national NETS ﬁle to ofﬁcial data sources.
4It is important to note, though, that founding date is a difﬁcult concept more generally given movement
between employer and nonemployer universes (see, e.g., Davis et al. (2009)).
5Several other studies use state-speciﬁc NETS extracts. For example, Cromwell (2015) studies Miami-Dade
county living wage contracts using the Florida NETS extract. Currie et al. (2010) and Groizard et al. (2015) use
the California extract to study fast food locations and manufacturing establishments, respectively. Donegan
(2014) studies biomedical businesses in the North Carolina Research Triangle.
7

===== PAGE 9 =====
3
Methodology and Results
We compare NETS to various ofﬁcial data sources and try to understand, to the extent pos-
sible, the sources of discrepancies. We focus on ﬁnding ways to align NETS with CBP and
QCEW. Error is present in all data sources, but CBP and QCEW have important advantages
relative to NETS. These programs are based on consistent, well-documented methodology,
with the explicit goal of producing representative data. While the coverage and methods
may not always be ideal, it is invaluable to have data generated by a well-understood col-
lection process. In contrast, the source data for NETS are collected as a consequence of
D&B’s other business processes. As such, the data collection methodology will likely never
be as transparent or longitudinally consistent as CBP or QCEW.
That said, NETS is certainly an impressive effort by the private sector to construct a
research-ready database, and we will argue that it can complement ofﬁcial data sources with
some caveats. NETS provides geographic detail and other features that are not available
in the most easily accessible government datasets. To the extent that NETS is shown to
agree with ofﬁcial data on common scope concepts, we can feel conﬁdent extending analyses
using the unique features of NETS. For example, CBP has been used at the county level to
estimate storm effects (e.g., Bayard et al. (2017)); these kinds of analyses can be extended to
sub-county geographies using NETS, as in Crane et al. (2017). This extension is validated
by the fact that NETS and CBP are largely in agreement with respect to the geographic
distribution of businesses.
3.1
Ofﬁcial data sources
We use three ofﬁcial sources: County Business Patterns (CBP), Nonemployer Statistics (NES),
and the Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages (QCEW). All of these data sources are
freely available to the public, and these comprise the main ofﬁcial sources of information
about the business universe in the U.S. Note that ﬁne aggregations of public use CBP and
QCEW ﬁles are occasionally censored to protect conﬁdentiality. In these cases, we impute
8

===== PAGE 10 =====
employment numbers using the national average for the relevant establishment size cell.
This censoring occurs only for employment, so establishment counts are unaffected.
As noted above, NETS uses different employment and establishment concepts and tim-
ing than ofﬁcial data sources. The most well-known government data sources, including
CBP and QCEW, cover nearly all workers who receive a regular paycheck but exclude many
business owners, the self employed, and independent contractors. NETS, in principle, in-
cludes all of these groups, making its employment and establishment universes proper su-
persets of CBP and QCEW. In addition, CBP excludes most government employment, and
many QCEW tabulations exclude all government employment, whereas NETS includes gov-
ernment. Though there is no explicit ownership code that distinguishes government from
private establishments in NETS, most government establishments can be ﬂagged in NETS
by using NAICS codes and ﬁrm linkages, as we discuss below. Finally, annual data from
ofﬁcial sources reﬂect snapshots at a certain time of the year (March 12 in CBP, a date that
can also be observed in the monthly QCEW data). NETS data can be collected at any time
of the year, and the timing is not disclosed in the data.
3.1.1
County Business Patterns (CBP)
The Census Bureau’s CBP program provides (publicly available) annual tabulations of es-
tablishment counts, employment counts, and payroll by geography, industry and establish-
ment size class based on mid-March snapshots (i.e., employment information reﬂect the
payroll period including March 12). We focus on post-1997 CBP data, after the program
switched from SIC industry classiﬁcation to NAICS. The source data for CBP is the Cen-
sus Bureau’s Business Register, which is in turn built from federal business tax records,
surveys, and the Economic Census (conducted in years ending in 2 and 7).6 Importantly,
6The Business Register is also the source for the Longitudinal Business Database (LBD) and the Business
Dynamics Statistics (BDS), the workhorse datasets for the study of business dynamics in the U.S. (see Jarmin
and Miranda (2002)). Access to LBD microdata (as well as Business Register ﬁles) requires an approved research
proposal and special sworn status, while the BDS (which consists of various aggregations of LBD data) is pub-
licly available. BDS data are constructed to match the scope of CBP. See DeSalvo et al. (2016) for details on the
construction of the Business Register.
9

===== PAGE 11 =====
the Business Register is based on IRS and Social Security Administration (SSA) lists of all
known businesses in the U.S., and employment data are derived from these federal sources.7
Single-establishment ﬁrms are efﬁciently covered with tax records supplemented at times
with industry and location information from survey and census data. Information on multi-
establishment ﬁrms also comes from tax records supplemented by census and survey data.
The Economic Census and the annual Company Organization Survey are particularly criti-
cal for tracking multi-unit status and distributing employment across establishments.
CBP covers nearly all non-government employer businesses; the exact coverage excep-
tions are listed in Section A.1 in the appendix. Employment includes all wage and salary
workers, both full- and part-time, and excludes proprietors, partners, independent contrac-
tors, and temporary help service workers employed by outside establishments (the latter of
which are included in the establishment that issues their paycheck rather than the establish-
ment where they work). In addition to excluding self-employed individuals, the CBP ex-
cludes private households, railroads, agricultural production employees, and government
employees. A popular misconception is that CBP excludes sole proprietorships; some sole
proprietorships have payroll employees and therefore can appear in the CBP. The ﬁles we
use are limited to the 50 states and the District of Columbia.
3.1.2
Nonemployer Statistics (NES)
The Census Bureau’s NES shares the same industry scope as the employer statistics used
in the CBP and is thus the nonemployer counterpart to CBP. All entities with taxable busi-
ness income but no employees comprise the total potential set of nonemployers, but Cen-
sus procedures remove those nonemployer tax entities that can be connected to multi-unit
employer businesses as well as regulated investment companies such as mutual funds. Fur-
ther removals are based on revenue thresholds that vary by legal form; businesses with
7The Business Register’s reliance on federal tax data for employment information contrasts with the BLS
employer universe ﬁles, which rely on separate state unemployment insurance data (as we detail below). How-
ever, the Business Register is supplemented with some geographic and industry information from state-based
records provided via BLS.
10

===== PAGE 12 =====
less than $1,000 in revenue are dropped, as are businesses above certain thresholds ($1 mil-
lion for non-services corporations and partnerships, $2 million for services corporations and
partnerships, and industry-dependent cutoffs for sole proprietorships).8 In principle, these
thresholds could give rise to discrepancies between Census data and NETS to the extent that
the latter captures nonemployers with extremely low or high revenue.
NES is available in county-by-industry aggregations. Note that the union of the CBP and
the NES, roughly speaking, comprises the universe of U.S. businesses as known to the IRS,
with the exception of businesses in out-of-scope industries.9
3.1.3
Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages (QCEW)
The QCEW is based on the BLS’ independent counterpart to the Census Bureau’s Business
Register. The BLS data are derived from state unemployment insurance (UI) records sup-
plied by State Workforce Agencies; BLS collects monthly data on employment (collected
quarterly but covering the pay period including the 12th of each month) from these state
sources. The BLS supplements UI records with frequent surveys of multi-establishment
ﬁrms as well as a rotating survey on industry and geographic information. Inclusion in
the QCEW is based primarily on whether an organization is part of the UI system; this is
mandatory for most for-proﬁt businesses but optional for some nonproﬁts.10 Employees
in QCEW, as in CBP, are wage and salary workers (both production and supervisory, with
few exceptions); proprietors and other self-employed individuals (who have no employees),
independent contractors, some farm and household workers, and externally supplied tem-
porary workers are not included (though the latter are counted as employees of the agencies
8Changes in nonemployer screening mechanisms were implemented in 2009 such that there is a modest
break in the time series at that time. The new screening mechanisms have not been retroactively applied to
previous years with the exception of 2008, in which the changes affected about 0.2 percent of ﬁrms.
9The source data for the NES is also used to construct the conﬁdential Integrated Longitudinal Business
Database (ILBD), in which nonemployer businesses are linked longitudinally and combined with the employer
universe longitudinal ﬁle, the LBD (see Davis et al. (2009), who describe the ILBD and document considerable
movement of businesses between the nonemployer and employer universes).
10Note that the UI source data underlying the QCEW are also used to construct the publicly available BLS
Business Employment Dynamics data as well as the Census Bureau Longitudinal Employer-Household Dy-
namics data and their public-use aggregate, the Quarterly Workforce Indicators.
11

===== PAGE 13 =====
that supply them). QCEW includes some non-employers in establishment counts, since UI
accounts that had paid employees in previous quarters are sometimes retained in the state
databases after becoming nonemployers. As is the case for CBP, it is a misconception that
QCEW excludes all sole proprietorships; those who hire payroll employees are typically
subject to the UI system and are therefore likely to appear in QCEW. High-level QCEW tab-
ulations include government employment, though in our work we always restrict to the
private sector. We also restrict the QCEW sample to the annual observation covering March
12th to be consistent with CBP timing. As we note above, record timing in NETS is unknown
and can vary by establishment and year.
In terms of industry coverage, QCEW is neither a superset nor a subset of CBP. A de-
tailed list of QCEW industry coverage is in Section A.2. Becker et al. (2005) provide further
discussion of differences between QCEW and CBP and show that there remain small but
nontrivial discrepancies between the two sources (in terms of both establishment and em-
ployment counts) even after harmonizing industry scope. An advantage of the U.S. statisti-
cal system is the availability of both QCEW and CBP, both of which serve as universe ﬁles
(subject to minor scope restrictions) yet provide almost entirely independently generated
information about U.S. business activity.
Figure 5 in the appendix reports aggregate employment in CBP and QCEW in samples
that restrict both data sources to industries in the intersection of their respective industry
scopes. These scope restrictions include complete omission of industries that are partially
out of scope since determining the exact overlap between the two sources is impossible in
such industries. We see in Figure 5 that CBP has higher employment than QCEW, and this
does not change markedly over time. Tables 6 and 7 in the appendix show these differ-
ences by size class, where it is apparent that employment discrepancies between CBP and
QCEW reﬂect, primarily, measurement of large establishments and, secondarily, measure-
ment of very small establishments. Multi-establishment ﬁrms in the QCEW are measured
more frequently and with different survey designs than in CBP, and precise measurement
12

===== PAGE 14 =====
of small establishments is difﬁcult in any source due to the grey area between employer and
nonemployer status. In addition, it is known that QCEW includes some zero-payroll estab-
lishments, which are entirely excluded from CBP. The differences between CBP and QCEW
are fairly sensitive to moderate changes to scope rules. Further investigation of these differ-
ences is beyond the scope of this paper; see Fairman et al. (2008) for more detailed discus-
sion. While these differences are signiﬁcant and warrent futher research, we will see that
the differences between NETS and either CBP or QCEW are an order of magnitude larger.
3.2
Analysis samples
To address the differences in coverage and deﬁnitions outlined above, we construct several
analysis samples from the full NETS ﬁles.
Unrestricted
This sample includes all establishments and workers in NETS. Our only modiﬁcation to
the data is to merge certain NETS establishments to make the establishment concept closer
to that of CBP and QCEW by locating NETS “lines of business”, which represent different
portions of an enterprise that are located in the same location. We identify dunsnumbers
(i.e., lines of business) that have the same hqduns (headquarters identiﬁer), 5-digit zip code,
and ﬁrst ﬁve street address characters (this latter item amounts to the building number and
the ﬁrst one or two characters of the street name). The purpose of this ﬁlter is to identify
dunsnumbers that are in the same building and the same ﬁrm. We want to abstract from
slight variations in the address (e.g. “ST” vs “STREET”) and differences in suite numbers.
Thus, we rely on the zip code and the truncated address to make the match, and the match-
ing ﬁrm criterion precludes the spurious matching of independent businesses that operate
in the same building. We merge (sum) the employment of appropriately matched lines
of business, treating them as a single establishment and assigning the merged establish-
ment the NAICS code of the largest line of business (in terms of employment). This should
13

===== PAGE 15 =====
roughly correspond with the principle activity industry concept observed in ofﬁcial data.
Baseline-CBP and Baseline-QCEW
Beginning with the unrestricted sample (in which lines of business have already been merged),
we ﬁrst identify and exclude government establishments as those with NAICS 92, those with
a headquarters that has NAICS 92, or those in a ﬁrm where more than half of establishments
have NAICS 92. Again, this is motivated by the fact that CBP and most QCEW statistics ex-
clude government establishments and employment. We then restrict the industry scope of
NETS to match each respective ofﬁcial data source, resulting in -CBP and -QCEW variants
of the baseline sample (the coverage details are in Section A of the appendix).
In addition, it is worth noting that several industries are partially covered by QCEW. The
extent of undercoverage is not documented in detail, so we completely exclude these indus-
tries from both QCEW and baseline-QCEW NETS sample. See Section A of the appendix for
details.
Unmerged Lines of Business (Unmerged LoB-CBP and Unmerged LoB-QCEW)
These samples are identical to the baseline samples (including CBP or QCEW industry scope
restrictions) but retain all NETS lines of business as separate establishments. As with the
baseline samples, we construct two variants that mimic the coverage of CBP and QCEW
respectively.
Excluding NAICS 61 (Ex. 61-CBP and Ex. 61-QCEW)
As we will discuss, it appears that many large public universities and school systems that are
outside the scope of ofﬁcial data are not captured by our government ﬁlter. It is difﬁcult to
distinguish public educational institutions from private ones, so we instead drop all NAICS
61 establishments from the baseline samples and make comparisons against similarly re-
stricted QCEW and CBP samples. As with the baseline samples, there are two variants that
14

===== PAGE 16 =====
mimic the coverage of CBP and QCEW respectively.
3.3
Treatment of employment
As has been noted, NETS appears to include business owners in their employment counts.
Neumark et al. (2005) propose subtracting 1 from the employment of each establishment to
align NETS employment with the standard wage-and-salary employment concept. When
the establishment only reports a single worker, it is presumed to be a nonemployer and
should not be counted in the employer universe. Thus we can estimate the count of em-
ployer establishments by dropping all NETS establishments reporting a single worker. This
is not a perfect rule, as there likely exist many true employer businesses with only one em-
ployee; however, as we show below, the signiﬁcant portion of the difference between NETS
and ofﬁcial sources is found among the smallest establishments, and ofﬁcial sources indicate
that the nonemployer universe is large compared to the small-employer universe. As such
we believe that identifying nonemployers in this way implies less measurement error than
treating them as employers.
We modify the Neumark et al. (2005) rule slightly, subtracting 1 from the employment
of each headquarters establishment rather than all establishments. This is motivated by the
presumption that the non-payroll owner would work only at the ﬁrm headquarters. In
practice, the outcomes of using our rule are nearly indistinguishable from those using the
broader Neumark et al. (2005) rule since most ﬁrms have only one establishment.11
This adjustment can be implemented in any of the samples listed above, so for each of
the four samples we obtain two establishment counts and two employment counts. We refer
to the adjusted numbers as payroll employment and payroll establishments since they ap-
proximate the payroll worker concept of ofﬁcial sources. The raw NETS counts are referred
to as raw employment and raw establishments.
11It is also possible for ﬁrms to have multiple owners, though the prevalence of sole proprietorships suggests
that further reﬁnements of our methodology would not substantially change the results.
15

===== PAGE 17 =====
1998
2000
2002
2004
2006
2008
2010
2012
2014
Year
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Millions of Establishments
NETS raw establishments
NETS payroll establishments
Census all establishments
Census payroll establishments
Source: NETS database, County Business Patterns, Census Nonemployer Statistics.
Note: NETS sample restricted to CBP industry scope.
Figure 1: Aggregate establishment counts
3.4
Aggregate activity in NETS and Census data
We ﬁrst focus on comparing NETS with Census data sources. The advantage of focusing ﬁrst
on Census sources is that Census provides data on both the employer universe (CBP) and
the nonemployer universe (NES), the union of which is (in principle) the universe targeted
by D&B.
Figure 1 plots establishment counts for NETS and for Census data, excluding govern-
ment. The NETS sample is the baseline-CBP sample, with the thick red line showing raw
establishment counts and the thin black line showing payroll establishment counts. “Cen-
sus payroll establishments” (dashed, thin black line) reﬂects the payroll employer universe
of CBP, and “Census all establishments” (dashed, thick red line) reﬂects the union of the
CBP payroll employer universe and the NES nonemployer universe. In principle, the latter
union is conceptually equivalent to the NETS universe.
16

===== PAGE 18 =====
Comparing the dashed lines, it is evident that the number of nonemployer establish-
ments dwarfs the number of employers in ofﬁcial statistics. The count of raw NETS es-
tablishments falls somewhere between the two Census totals, trending closer to the total
Census universe in recent years. This suggests that NETS covers more than the employer
universe but fails to cover the union of the employer and nonemployer universes, a point
noted by Haltiwanger et al. (2013).
In the early years of the sample, the total NETS universe was somewhat too high to
match the Census employer universe but far too low to match the total Census business
universe. Notably, though, NETS coverage appears to have expanded in recent years. It is
unclear whether this reﬂects changes in targeted scope or truly improved coverage, though
we can likely rule out the possibility that the actual U.S. business universe expanded at
the rate indicated by NETS over that period. Figure 1 should caution researchers against
interpreting rising NETS establishment counts since 2000 as reﬂecting a surge in business
entry.
It is also puzzling that NETS counts many more payroll employer establishments (thin,
solid black line) than CBP. CBP records are based on IRS and SSA tax data, so there is limited
room for mismeasurement. The recent gap implies that about 8 million establishments re-
ported positive employment to D&B but had no wage or salary employees for IRS purposes.
We will return to this issue in our discussion of imputation.
Figure 2 plots the employment levels corresponding to the establishment counts in Fig-
ure 1. The “Census payroll employment” line is total CBP employment, and the “Census
all employment” number sums payroll employment from CBP with the number of busi-
ness owners in CBP and NES, under the assumption that there is one (non-payroll) owner
per establishment.12 Consistent with Figure 1, NETS payroll employment is signiﬁcantly
higher than Census payroll employment. The raw employment numbers (thick red lines)
12This differs slightly from our owner adjustment in the NETS data, where we subtract one owner from each
ﬁrm. With CBP and NES alone we cannot implement this adjustment because there are no ﬁrm data. In principle
we could supplement CBP with ﬁrm counts from the BDS, but the difference between the adjustments is very
small since most ﬁrms only operate a single establishment.
17

===== PAGE 19 =====
are somewhat closer, but the NETS values are still higher. It is not entirely clear why raw
NETS establishment counts are lower than total Census universe establishment counts (see
Figure 1), while the corresponding NETS employment counts are above the Census counter-
parts. It appears that while NETS does not cover all the establishments that Census does,
NETS must be measuring or imputing higher employment to those establishments it does
cover.
1998
2000
2002
2004
2006
2008
2010
2012
2014
Year
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
170
180
Millions
NETS raw employment
NETS payroll employment
Census all employment
Census payroll employment
Source: NETS database, County Business Patterns, Census Nonemployer Statistics.
Note: NETS sample restricted to CBP scope.
Figure 2: Aggregate employment
To summarize, NETS establishment counts fall between the Census employer count and
the Census count of all business establishments. The NETS counts begin near the Census
employer level in the 1990s but are now closer to the Census employer-nonemployer union.
In terms of employment, NETS is consistently above Census, though the raw employment
totals are not dramatically different. Taken together, these ﬁndings imply that the average
payroll establishment size in NETS is smaller than in Census. We will turn to establishment
18

===== PAGE 20 =====
size in the next section.
3.4.1
Discussion
There are many possible explanations for these patterns. In the appendix, Figures 7 and 8
show that adding government establishments back into NETS and treating lines of business
as separate establishments make almost no difference for the establishment count discrepan-
cies, and Figures 9 and 10 show that the patterns for employment are similarly robust. An-
other possibility is that the difference between NETS and CBP payroll establishment counts
reﬂects nonemployer establishments that make use of informal workers (such as family), in-
dependent contractors, or externally supplied temporary workers; however, this would not
explain why total (employer and nonemployer) NETS establishment counts are below the
Census business universe. Businesses making use of informal workers may be reluctant to
report such to D&B, suggesting that informality is not likely to be quantitatively signiﬁcant.
Instead, below we document high rates of employment imputation among small establish-
ments in NETS, indicating that D&B are not actually receiving employment data from many
small businesses. It is therefore unlikely that NETS provides a more accurate count of formal
and informal employment.
The problem of independent contractors and temporary workers may be more salient,
however, as such workers might be double counted in NETS (i.e., they may be counted
both in the establishment in which they work and the establishment that pays them). In
unreported results, we construct NETS versus CBP comparisons in which we omit NAICS
56 (which includes temporary help services as well as other commonly contracted business
services such as landscaping, janitorial, and security services); the omission of this sector
does not materially affect the gap between NETS and CBP.
In what follows, we focus on trying to match NETS payroll employment and payroll
establishment totals to ofﬁcial data, rather than raw employment and raw establishment
counts, since it is apparent from Figure 1 that NETS does not cover the employer-nonemployer
19

===== PAGE 21 =====
union. That is not surprising given that D&B does not have access to comprehensive admin-
istrative data; larger establishments are likely easier for D&B to locate and perhaps more
willing to answer their questions. Therefore, we choose to focus on matching the payroll
statistics, dropping presumed nonemployers from the analysis.
We also considered the possibility that the Census nonemployer ﬁgures are incorrect.
Measuring nonemployers can be difﬁcult, and one has to distinguish between “true” nonem-
ployers and tax entities that may be part of larger ﬁrms or ﬁnancial vehicles.13 It is conceiv-
able that, for some deﬁnition of nonemployer ﬁrms, Census counts too many and the NETS
ﬁgures are closer to truth. We are not aware of any corroborating evidence for this hypoth-
esis, and with the data in hand we cannot test it; however, we note that Census does make
serious attempts to restrict the nonemployer universe with linking attempts and revenue
cutoffs. Moreover, if Census mismeasurement explains the gap, it must be time-varying
mismeasurement since the gap has narrowed. Regardless, the nonemployer universe is a
difﬁcult set of businesses to understand, so we feel comfortable restricting attention to pay-
roll employers.
3.5
Size distributions in NETS and CBP
To get a better sense of where NETS differs from ofﬁcial data, Table 1 compares payroll em-
ployment and payroll establishment counts by size class for 2000, 2007, and 2014. For each
year, we report the the percent difference between NETS counts and CBP counts as a per-
cent of CBP counts; for example, the top left cell shows that in 2000, NETS had 82 percent
more employment than CBP among establishments with fewer than 5 employees.14 Several
patterns stand out. First, consistent with the discussion in the previous section, NETS em-
ployer activity has generally grown over time compared with CBP. The “Aggregate” row
shows that in 2000 NETS had 16 percent more employment and 33 percent more establish-
13See
https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/nonemployer-statistics/technical-
documentation/methodology.html for the methodology Census uses.
14Table 8 in the appendix reports similar exercises but for QCEW instead of CBP.
20

===== PAGE 22 =====
Percent difference
2000
2007
2014
Size class (Employees)
Emp.
Estab.
Emp.
Estab.
Emp.
Estab.
1 to 4
82.20
53.85
113.28
130.21
195.87
241.87
5 to 9
15.89
15.24
19.47
18.30
44.21
41.04
10 to 19
4.68
2.94
5.80
4.15
1.29
0.43
20 to 49
8.23
5.93
8.82
6.11
1.85
−0.53
50 to 99
9.98
9.38
8.36
8.07
11.59
9.77
100 to 249
−0.50
0.66
−2.29
−0.27
2.59
4.45
250 to 499
−0.21
0.21
−0.97
−0.07
−3.75
−2.60
500 to 999
9.16
9.30
−1.23
0.42
−5.90
−4.88
1000+
49.36
39.18
13.01
9.80
18.12
3.69
Aggregate
16.23
33.18
13.08
75.66
19.49
139.79
Aggregate ex.
less than 10
employees
11.93
4.61
5.10
4.87
4.75
1.33
Aggregate ex.
less than 10
and greater than 1000 em-
ployees
5.03
4.48
3.63
4.86
2.20
1.32
Source: NETS and CBP
Note: Difference between NETS and CBP employment as percent of CBP employment. NETS sample
restricted to CBP scope.
Table 1: NETS versus CBP by establishment size
ments than CBP. By 2014, NETS had 20 percent more employment and more than twice as
many establishments as CBP.
The table shows that these differences are primarily driven by small establishments. In
2014 NETS had more than three times as many 1-to-4-employee establishments as CBP, with
almost three times as many employees.15 In the same year NETS had 40 percent more ac-
tivity in the next establishment size up, those with 5 to 9 employees. More generally, small
establishments account for the bulk of the difference between NETS and CBP, and these
small establishments also appear to account for much of the expansion of the discrepancy
since 2000. This can be seen on the row marked “Aggregate ex. less than 10 employees”,
which reports the comparison excluding establishments with fewer than 10 employees from
both datasets. In this sample, the differences between NETS and CBP are minor and have
15Note again that we have already subtracted one employee from every NETS ﬁrm and dropped establish-
ments whose resulting employment is zero.
21

===== PAGE 23 =====
Imputation rates
Size class
2000
2007
2014
1 to 4
41.66
54.85
71.88
5 to 9
21.56
20.17
37.82
10 to 19
19.46
16.82
16.98
20 to 49
17.94
13.83
9.19
50 to 99
16.82
13.75
7.37
100 to 249
14.70
12.89
7.19
250 to 499
18.65
14.91
9.84
500 to 999
18.48
17.77
11.61
1000+
23.74
21.68
15.67
Source: NETS
Note: Establishments with imputed NETS
employment as a percent of total NETS es-
tablishments by establishment size. NETS
sample is restricted to CBP scope but does
not merge lines of business.
Table 2: NETS imputation rates by establishment size
not worsened over time. The largest class of establishments, those with 1,000 or more em-
ployees, also exhibit some discrepancy. The ﬁnal row of the table shows that omitting these
largest establishments in addition to the smallest ones improves the match modestly, partic-
ularly in 2000.
There are a number of possible explanations for the wide disparity among small estab-
lishments. We believe that our construction of NETS payroll establishment and employment
counts depends on reasonable assumptions about proprietors, but it does introduce minor
errors in cases of multiple working (but non-payroll) owners, cases of absentee owners,
and cases of on-the-payroll owners (i.e., paycheck-receiving owners who should not be sub-
tracted from employment counts). These errors are less problematic for employment-based
comparisons than for establishment count-based comparisons, however, and the divergence
from ofﬁcial sources is evident even in the employment numbers. That said, measuring very
small businesses (particularly very new businesses, which tend to be small) is a difﬁcult
challenge even for ofﬁcial statistical agencies, since there is a fair amount of movement be-
tween the employer and nonemployer universes (Davis et al. (2009)) and small businesses
22

===== PAGE 24 =====
may be more likely to have periods of inactivity.16 Excluding the small size classes results
in a match between NETS and CBP that is not substantially worse than the match between
CBP and QCEW (shown on Tables 6 and 7 in the appendix), and the same holds for the
match between NETS and QCEW (which we report on Table 8 in the appendix).
The most likely explanation for the divergence among small establishments is the preva-
lence of imputation in these size classes. Direct contact with the business is an important
source of D&B’s employment data for these smallest establishments. If the business can-
not be contacted or does not answer questions, D&B can be forced to impute missing em-
ployment values using cross-sectional information (e.g., establishment location or industry).
Walls & Associates reviews these imputations and adjusts them where longitudinal estab-
lishment linkages provide information missing from the cross-sectional imputation. Table
2 presents employment imputation rates.17 Employment is often imputed for the estab-
lishments in the smallest size classes (and, of course, size class itself is a function of the
potentially imputed employment count).18 In 2014, more than two-thirds of the employ-
ment values for the smallest size class are imputed, and more than one-third of the values
for the 5-9 employee class are imputed. Imputation rates in the smallest size class have
risen dramatically since 2000, the same period over which excess NETS employment and
establishment counts (versus CBP) have risen. The obvious conjecture is that nonemployers
are being imputed with positive payroll employment (NETS employment greater than 1),
which causes us to treat them as employers. Under these conditions, the simple ﬁx of sub-
tracting 1 from ﬁrm employment is not sufﬁcient for satisfactorily reconciling NETS with
ofﬁcial employer numbers. Researchers should be cognizant of large measurement error
among very small establishments generally, particularly when studying the post-2000 rise
of small-establishment activity in NETS.
16As noted above and shown on Tables 6 and 7, nontrivial discrepancies exist even between CBP and QCEW
in the smallest size classes.
17These imputation rates necessarily refer to the NETS sample in which lines of business are not merged.
18In related work in progress, we ﬁnd that a signiﬁcant number of establishments see multiple consecutive
years of imputation.
23

===== PAGE 25 =====
Percent difference
2000
2007
2014
Industry
Excl <10
All
Excl <10
All
Excl <10
All
11 Ag., For., Fish., Hunt
74
68
67
66
71
73
21 Mining
70
69
−2
3
−8
−5
22 Utilities
−40
−37
−39
−35
−46
−40
23 Construction
−8
3
−5
3
7
23
31-33 Manufacturing
32
34
39
43
50
54
42 Wholesale Trade
7
15
7
17
−4
8
44-45 Retail Trade
−11
−2
−11
−1
−3
4
48-49 Trans., Warehous.
15
19
−6
0
−19
−7
51 Information
15
20
15
21
10
18
52 Finance, Insurance
25
23
5
10
7
12
53 Real Est., Rent., Leas.
70
70
66
68
75
86
54 Prof., Sci., Tech. Svcs
35
39
12
17
5
17
55 Management
−91
−90
−91
−89
−86
−83
56 Admin., Waste Mgmt
−34
−26
−39
−18
−47
−8
61 Education Svcs
287
278
252
244
261
260
62 Health, Social Asst.
5
7
−8
−2
−9
1
71 Arts, Entertain., Rec.
33
44
15
27
2
22
72 Accom., Food Svcs
−1
2
−8
−1
−14
−2
81 Other Svcs
39
41
10
25
6
29
Source: NETS and CBP
Note: Difference between NETS and CBP employment as percent of CBP employment by NAICS
sector. NETS sample restricted to CBP scope.
Table 3: NETS versus CBP by sector
3.6
Industry distributions in NETS and CBP
To shed further light on differences between NETS and CBP, Table 3 reports employment
comparisons by 2-digit NAICS sector. As in our size-based comparisons, we report the dif-
ference between NETS and CBP as a percent of CBP levels. For each of 2000, 2007, and
2014, we report the differences both for the full baseline samples (“All”) and for the sam-
ple excluding establishments with fewer than 10 workers (“Excl <10”). Within industries,
omitting small establishments improves the match in about half of cases.
Educational services (NAICS 61) is the worst-ﬁtting sector, with NETS consistently re-
porting more than three times as many employees as CBP. This discrepancy has changed
24

===== PAGE 26 =====
little over time and is likely due to our difﬁculty identifying large government-owned edu-
cational institutions. In QCEW-based comparisons below we ﬁnd that omitting educational
services results in dramatic improvements in aggregate comparisons.
The next signiﬁcant (though less egregious) discrepancy exists in management of com-
panies and enterprises (NAICS 55); according to the NETS documentation, D&B attempts
to avoid using parts of this industry category and instead locates establishments in speciﬁc
industry areas, resulting in much lower (by more than 80 percent) NETS employment in
this sector. Other signiﬁcant discrepancies exist in agriculture, forestry, ﬁshing and hunting
(NAICS 11), in which NETS shows higher employment even after our attempts to limit the
sample to CBP scope (which omits much of NAICS 11); this discrepancy has varied only
modestly over time.
NETS appears to poorly capture three noteworthy sectoral reallocations of the last 15
years. First, the shale oil and gas boom drove dramatic gains in U.S. mining (NAICS 21)
activity starting in the mid-2000s. NETS signiﬁcantly over-covers this sector in 2000 (by
about 70 percent) then approximately matches it in 2007 (the year often chosen to mark
the ramp-up of the shale boom) and 2014. While NETS mining coverage may appear to
improve over the relevant years, it is far from clear that this coverage expansion actually
reﬂects improved measurement since NETS coverage was so dramatically overstated at the
beginning of the sample (and, importantly, this initial overstatement was not driven by small
establishments).19
Second, NETS appears to miss much of the post-2007 construction “bust” that accompa-
19Oil and gas industries may be particularly sensitive to industry classiﬁcation errors. Spot-checking exer-
cises reveal that a number of oil and gas establishments are classiﬁed in media-related sectors, perhaps due to
the word “production” appearing in their business names; we thank Maria Tito for sharing this discovery with
us. This is likely a nontrivial problem but unlikely to be the main driver of the pattern of mining discrepancies.
Additionally, since NAICS broad (2-digit) sector classiﬁcations often divide similar activities in ways that are
effectively arbitrary relative to the set of activities engaged in by businesses, in unreported exercises we created
an ad hoc “oil and gas” sector consisting of several relevant narrow industries in mining, manufacturing, trans-
portation, professional services, and construction (designed to encompass oil and gas exploration, production,
transportation, reﬁning, and other processing) and compared NETS with QCEW in this specially designed sec-
tor. We ﬁnd that the discrepancies observed in NAICS mining are not signiﬁcantly altered by the development
of this “oil and gas” sector; that is, NETS does appear to truly miss the shale oil and gas boom.
25

===== PAGE 27 =====
nied the housing crisis (NAICS 23). NETS coverage of the sector is reasonably good in 2000
and 2007, but by 2014 NETS overstates construction employment by just over 20 percent.
This overstatement is largely accounted for by small establishments. Weak housing-related
coverage may also be seen in ﬁnance and insurance (NAICS 52) and real estate and rental
and leasing (NAICS 53), in which cases small establishments do not appear to be the main
culprit.
Third, NETS seemingly misses some portion of the post-2000 drop in U.S. manufacturing
employment (NAICS 31-33). NETS overstatement of the sector rises from about 35 percent
in 2000 to about 40 percent in 2007 then to at least 50 percent in 2014. Small establishments
account for only a modest portion of the overall overstatement and roughly none of the
change over time.
It is important to note that industry classiﬁcation is a notoriously difﬁcult endeavor.
Even in ofﬁcial sources, industry assignment is much less objective than geographic assign-
ment (and even size assignment). As such, some differences in industry coverage between
NETS and ofﬁcial sources may partly reﬂect subjective differences in industry assignment
methods rather than substantive measurement error in NETS. While we are aware of little
research on this topic, a notable exception is Isenberg et al. (2013). They compare Census
Business Register establishment industry codes (i.e., the CBP source data) to the industry in
which employees claim to work in the American Communities Survey (ACS). Using links
between the worker identiﬁer and the establishment identiﬁer, they ﬁnd that the worker-
reported industry matches the establishment-reported industry 75 percent of the time (at
the 2-digit NAICS level). These results suggest that we should expect signiﬁcant variation
in industry assignment across data sources, even at the broadest levels of industry aggre-
gation. The previous section shows that NETS and CBP are reasonably aligned when the
smallest size classes are omitted; the industry discrepancies described in this section may
therefore partly reﬂect offsetting differences in subjective industry assignment. That said,
the speciﬁc discrepancies mentioned here, particularly in mining, construction, and manu-
26

===== PAGE 28 =====
facturing, are cause for concern (while the differences in education likely reﬂect true scope
differences).
3.7
Aggregate activity in NETS and QCEW
In this subsection we compare NETS time series to ofﬁcial data and show how excluding
certain classes of establishments can improve agreement between the two. We began this
section by focusing on comparisons between NETS and Census data primarily because of
the availability of Census nonemployer data, which facilitate full-universe comparison. We
now turn to QCEW comparisons. A key advantage of QCEW is that it is available in NAICS
format beginning in 1992, so we can easy compare longer time series than with CBP. More-
over, we ﬁnd that NETS tends to align with QCEW slightly better than with CBP. Recall
that we create separate NETS samples meant to mimic the scope of CBP and QCEW, re-
spectively. The better alignment of the NETS baseline-QCEW sample with QCEW suggests
that the QCEW-covered industries may be covered more accurately in NETS that the CBP-
covered industries. In any case, using CBP instead of QCEW leads to the same qualitative
conclusions, and CBP-based versions of the ﬁgures in this subsection can be found in the
Appendix.
For these comparisons, we restrict attention to employer establishments (i.e., we have al-
ready subtracted 1 from all NETS ﬁrms’ employment and dropped resulting nonemployers)
because there is no nonemployer counterpart in QCEW. We focus on the baseline-QCEW
sample of NETS that is consistent with QCEW industry scope.
Figure 3 shows time series comparisons of QCEW and NETS in terms of the total number
of (employer) establishments and employees. The top row of Figure 3 shows the totals. Con-
sistent with our CBP-based comparisons, NETS reports signiﬁcantly more establishments
and workers than QCEW and is therefore too large to represent the employer universe.
Again, the gap between NETS and ofﬁcial establishment counts grows over time. Table 8
in the appendix shows that, as is the case with CBP, the key source of the discrepancy be-
27

===== PAGE 29 =====
tween NETS and QCEW is small establishments, with additional signiﬁcant discrepancies
among very large establishments. Therefore, the second row of Figure 3 restricts the data
to establishments with more than 9 employees, and the third row restricts the data to es-
tablishments with more than 9 but fewer than 1000 employees. These restrictions reduce
the discrepancy considerably; in particular, small establishments account for the dramatic
widening of the discrepancy in recent years. However, under these restrictions NETS still
counts more employees and more establishments than QCEW.
Table 9 in the appendix reports differences between NETS and QCEW by NAICS sector;
similarly to Table 3 (which compares NETS with CBP), we ﬁnd signiﬁcant variation across
industries and over time in terms of the discrepancy between NETS and QCEW. As noted
with the CBP sector comparisons, a noteworthy sector is educational services (NAICS 61).
This sector includes public and private schools as well as martial arts academies and related
establishments. Many primary and secondary schools and public universities are not clas-
siﬁed as government establishments according to our rule from the initial cleaning process.
Thus many large educational establishments are included in our QCEW-comparable NETS
sample while they would be excluded from the QCEW private employment ﬁgures. Figure
4 repeats Figure 3 but omits education services establishments (in both NETS and QCEW).
As the bottom two rows of the ﬁgure show, large establishments in the education sector ac-
count for a signiﬁcant portion of the discrepancy between NETS and QCEW, and when we
omit both from NETS we are able to replicate QCEW establishment and employment counts
reasonably well.
Figures 11 and 12 in the appendix replicate Figures 3 and 4 but for CBP data (with CBP
scope), with similar results across the years that are common to both QCEW and CBP.
3.8
Comparing narrow cells
It is not enough for NETS, or a subset of NETS, to have the same employment levels and
establishment counts as ofﬁcial sources. To have conﬁdence that inferences from one source
28

===== PAGE 30 =====
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
80
100
120
140
160
Millions
Number of Employees
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
Millions
Number of Employees
     Excluding small establishments
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
50
60
70
80
90
Millions
Number of Employees
               Excluding small and large establishments
NETS
QCEW
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
5
10
15
20
Millions
Number of Establishments
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
1.4
1.6
1.8
2
2.2
Millions
Number of Establishments
  Excluding small establishments
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
1.4
1.6
1.8
2
2.2
Millions
    Number of Establishments
           Excluding small and large establishments
Source: NETS, QCEW.
Notes: NETS sample is restricted to QCEW scope (sample Baseline-QCEW). "Small" establishments are those
with fewer than 10 employees. "Large" establishments are those with 1000 or more employees.
Figure 3: NETS versus QCEW
29

===== PAGE 31 =====
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
80
90
100
110
120
130
Millions
Number of Employees
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
60
70
80
90
100
110
Millions
Number of Employees
     Excluding small establishments
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
55
60
65
70
75
80
85
Millions
Number of Employees
               Excluding small and large establishments
NETS
QCEW
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
5
10
15
20
Millions
Number of Establishments
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2
Millions
Number of Establishments
  Excluding small establishments
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2
Millions
    Number of Establishments
           Excluding small and large establishments
Source: NETS, QCEW.
Notes: NETS sample is restricted to QCEW scope (sample Ex. 61-QCEW). "Small" establishments are those with
fewer than 10 employees. "Large" establishments are those with 1000 or more employees.
Figure 4: NETS versus QCEW, education services (NAICS 61) excluded
30

===== PAGE 32 =====
will carry over to the other, we should have more detailed agreement. To this end, we
partition the NETS establishments into various cells and calculate the correlation of cell-
level employment and establishment counts with ofﬁcal data. Table 4 presents the results
for 2000, 2007, and 2014. The ﬁrst column notes the ofﬁcial dataset being compared with
NETS, the second column notes the level of cell aggregation, and the third column notes
sample restrictions (in each case, NETS is restricted to match the scope of the ofﬁcial data
to which it is being compared). Remaining columns report simple correlation coefﬁcients.20
Empty correlation cells on the table indicate that the speciﬁed ofﬁcial dataset does not permit
suitably accurate correlations at that level due to conﬁdentiality censoring.21
The ﬁrst and fourth rows of the table, corresponding to state-size-sector cells with all size
classes in QCEW and CBP respectively, illustrate the problems of mapping the full NETS
sample to ofﬁcial sources. Some of these correlations are around 0.5 or 0.6, even though our
geography (state) is quite broad. As seen in previous exercises, the relationship between
NETS and ofﬁcial sources weakens over time when all sizes are included. The second and
ﬁfth rows show, however, that exclusion of small establishments (fewer than 10 workers)
both dramatically improves the correlation and signiﬁcantly attenuates time variation in
the match quality. Simply omitting small establishments boosts the correlation between
NETS and ofﬁcial sources above 95 percent for establishment counts and above 80 percent
for employment. Dropping large establishments—rows three and six—boosts employment
correlations to around 90 percent.
20For example, let nNETS
i
be the number of establishments that NETS counts in county-size-sector cell i, and
let nCBP
i
be the CBP count of establishments in cell i. We report the correlation coefﬁcient
ρ =
∑i

nNETS
i
−nNETS
 
nCBP
i
−nCBP


∑i

nNETS
i
−nNETS
2
× ∑i

nCBP
i
−nCBP
21/2
where the summations and averages are taken over all county-size-sector cells i, and horizontal bars indicate
averages. Employment correlations replace cell establishment counts with cell employment counts.
21CBP does not report employment by size class at the county or zip code level, instead reporting employment
for the geography-industry cell as a whole. Thus we do not calculate employment correlations for size-by-
county or zip comparisons.
31

===== PAGE 33 =====
The seventh row narrows the comparison to county-based aggregates; county-level em-
ployment is nearly perfectly correlated between NETS and CBP. To our knowledge, D&B
does not attempt to match county aggregates, so these correlations are strikingly high.22
This is likely due in part to the fact that business activity is highly correlated with popula-
tion, so any distinct attempts to measure business activity should be highly correlated across
geography; but these results do lend credibility to NETS. As rows 8-10 show, however, the
high county-level correlations apparently reﬂect offsetting misses in narrower (sector-by-
size) cells, where correlation is somewhat lower (at this level of detail, only establishment
counts are available). As with the state-based correlations, the county-size-sector correla-
tions degrade over time when all size classes are included. However, when small estab-
lishments are omitted, the correlations are above 95 percent. The last three rows of Table 4
exploit zip code-level cells from CBP. Cells omitting small establishments see respectable,
but not overwhelming, zip-size-sector correlations above 80 percent.23
The fact that county aggregates are more correlated than county-size-sector aggregates
is noteworthy. At ﬁrst glance, offsetting misses across size-by-industry cells within counties
may be cause for concern. However, as noted in previous exercises, industry is difﬁcult to
measure consistently. Unlike geography, industry categorization is necessarily subjective,
and caution is always warranted when using industry codes in any microdata. High cor-
relation across geography with somewhat lower correlation across industry likely reﬂects
in part (perhaps large part) differences in industry assignment processes. Statistical agen-
cies may be more consistent and rule based when assigning industry codes to individual
businesses than is D&B; yet even the best industry measurement processes are subject to
considerable ambiguity and error, and D&B does at least have proﬁt incentives to identify
businesses in an accurate, useful way. Size measurement is certainly less ambiguous than
22We conﬁrmed this in correspondence with Don Walls of Walls & Associates. Similar correlations have been
noted by Neumark et al. (2005) and others.
23 These correlations are likely lower bounds since we have 5-digit zip codes from NETS while CBP provides
tabulations by zip code tabulation areas (ZCTAs). ZCTAs are often the same as zip codes, but sometimes smaller
zip codes are included under larger ZCTA identiﬁers. This mismatch in identiﬁers likely makes the measured
correlations lower.
32

===== PAGE 34 =====
Correlation
2000
2007
2014
Comparison
Cell
Exclusions
Emp.
Estab.
Emp.
Estab.
Emp.
Estab.
QCEW
State-Size-Sector
None
0.82
0.79
0.88
0.61
0.81
0.49
QCEW
State-Size-Sector
<10
0.81
0.97
0.89
0.97
0.86
0.96
QCEW
State-Size-Sector
<10, >1000
0.91
0.97
0.91
0.97
0.87
0.96
CBP
State-Size-Sector
None
0.88
0.96
0.83
0.86
0.77
0.71
CBP
State-Size-Sector
<10
0.88
0.97
0.84
0.97
0.82
0.96
CBP
State-Size-Sector
<10, >1000
0.92
0.97
0.91
0.97
0.87
0.96
CBP
County
None
0.99
0.98
1.00
0.99
1.00
0.99
CBP
Cty.-Size-Sector
None
0.94
0.87
0.73
CBP
Cty.-Size-Sector
<10
0.96
0.97
0.96
CBP
Cty.-Size-Sector
<10, >1000
0.96
0.97
0.96
CBP
Zip-Size-Sector
None
0.89
0.81
0.65
CBP
Zip-Size-Sector
<10
0.80
0.83
0.84
CBP
Zip-Size-Sector
<10, >1000
0.80
0.83
0.83
Source: NETS, CBP, and QCEW.
Notes: Simple correlations of cell-level employment and establishment counts, NETS and ofﬁcial sources. Exclusions
refer to excluded establishment size classes. QCEW comparisons use NETS sample restricted to QCEW scope. CBP
comparisons use NETS sample restricted to CBP scope.
Table 4: Cell-based correlations
industry measurement, yet size is not always easy to pin down given the employer versus
nonemployer distinctions discussed above. Moreover, seasonal business ﬂuctuations can
easily result in the movement of establishments across size bins, and NETS measurement
timing is heavily vulnerable to seasonality. In any case, we do not interpret the correlation
gap between county aggregates and county-size-industry aggregates as necessarily indicat-
ing quality problems in NETS (aside from our seasonality concern); a signiﬁcant portion of
this discrepancy may be attributable to benign differences in labeling.
Table 4 suggests that NETS is in general agreement with ofﬁcial sources in terms of the
distribution of economic activity across states, counties, establishment sizes, and industries
when it is restricted to exclude the smallest establishments. Considerable mismeasurement
of small establishments is a deﬁnite problem in NETS—indeed, a much bigger problem
than the well-known challenge of measuring small establishments in ofﬁcial sources. But
our broad conclusion is that NETS can be made reasonably representative of the U.S. econ-
33

===== PAGE 35 =====
Share Covered
Sample
Emp.
Estab.
Sample 1: ex. less than 10
0.848
0.223
Sample 2: ex. less than 10 & greater than 1000
0.743
0.223
Sample 3: ex. less than 10, greater than 1000 & NAICS 61
0.727
0.219
Memo: Private QCEW levels
113,326,720
8,994,650
Source: QCEW
Note: Share of QCEW employment accounted for by scope restrictions. 2014 data.
Table 5: QCEW coverage of industry scope restrictions
omy in terms of location, industry, and establishment size. This lends credibility to NETS-
based studies of static business-level activity (in related work in progress, we ﬁnd dynamic
comparisons to be less appropriate). We therefore recommend that researchers ensure that
NETS-based results are robust to sample restrictions that omit small establishments—and
perhaps the largest establishments and the education sector as well. An important question
is how costly these sample restrictions are in terms of coverage. Table 5 reports the fraction
of QCEW establishments and employment that fall within our restricted samples.
Sample 1, which excludes small establishments and closes most of the gap between
NETS and QCEW, still covers 85 percent of QCEW employment. Even the most restrictive
sample, which excludes small and large establishments and the education sector, still covers
73 percent of workers. The coverage of establishments is, of course, much lower, since small
establishments are much more common than large ones. Low establishment coverage may
be a signiﬁcant problem in some applications, but employment is typically the more impor-
tant target of study given both its use as a measure of economic activity and the problems
with counting establishments even in ofﬁcial data. The high employment share covered by
our restricted samples is reassuring about the usefulness of NETS.24
24For comparison, another commonly used source of publicly available business microdata is Compustat,
which reports detailed data on the universe of publicly traded businesses; the ﬁrms covered by Compustat
account for well less than half of U.S. private sector employment (Davis et al. (2007)).
34

===== PAGE 36 =====
3.9
Data timing
As noted above, ofﬁcial sources record data in mid-March, while D&B data are collected
continually throughout the year. The NETS sample for year t reﬂects a snapshot of the
database in January of t. Therefore, for example, an employment number recorded by D&B
in February of 2005 will appear in NETS as the 2006 observation. For this reason, some
researchers have rolled NETS data back one year when comparing against ofﬁcial sources
(that is, setting t∗= t −1).
We have not modiﬁed the NETS year data in our reported analysis for two reasons.
First, the appropriate timing for comparison is actually not obvious. For example, if D&B
collects an establishment’s employment data in November 2005, then NETS will count these
data as the 2006 observation. Our current approach would compare this November 2005
employment number in NETS to the March 2006 observations in ofﬁcial sources, for a timing
difference of four months. Those researchers who roll NETS data back one year will compare
the November 2005 NETS observation to the March 2005 observations in ofﬁcial sources, for
a timing difference of eight months. It is true, however, that if D&B recording is uniformly
distributed across the year, our method of leaving NETS year data unaltered will result in
somewhat more error (on average) than a method that rolls NETS years back. But given
potential lags in NETS recording and reporting, we do not see this difference as likely to be
signiﬁcant.
Second, in unreported results we performed all analyses in this paper with NETS data
rolled back by one year (this means that instead of comparing NETS observations for 2000,
2007, and 2014 to the same years’ data in ofﬁcial sources, we compare NETS observations
that are reported as covering 2000, 2007, and 2014 to the years 1999, 2006, and 2013, respec-
tively, in ofﬁcial sources). In a majority of comparisons, the relationship between NETS and
ofﬁcial sources is closer when we leave NETS years unaltered than when we roll NETS years
back. Comparisons by establishment size are almost uniformly better with unaltered NETS
years. Comparisons by industry are more mixed, with a modest majority favoring unaltered
35

===== PAGE 37 =====
years, and in many cases the unaltered data are better by wide margins (while the margins
for cases in which altered data are better tend to be small). Narrow-cell correlations in the
unaltered-year data are higher in a large majority of cases. A few charts look visually better
in the altered-year data, but most are visually similar.
We therefore prefer leaving NETS year data unaltered and interpreting NETS years at
face value when comparing with ofﬁcial sources. However, other researchers may have
needs for which the alternative approach is more appropriate.
4
Conclusion
We document a number of limitations with NETS. Coverage of very small establishments di-
verges markedly from ofﬁcial data sources, with signiﬁcant apparent mismeasurement due
to imputation. The small-establishment problem worsens signiﬁcantly during the 2000s,
and researchers must be careful to not interpret rising establishment counts in NETS over
the last 20 years as indicative of robust business formation activity.25 The NETS universe
began the early 2000s being moderately too large to match the ofﬁcial employer universe,
and by the early 2010s the NETS universe is far larger than the ofﬁcial employer universe
but still smaller than the total employer and nonemployer universe by Census (and IRS)
reckoning. In other words, differences between NETS and ofﬁcial sources do not simply
reﬂect the notion that D&B has a more comprehensive and complete universe of business
activity.
These differences between NETS and ofﬁcial sources are not reason to reject the use of
NETS in research, however. We ﬁrst show that the NETS universe can be restricted to ap-
proximate the scope of ofﬁcial sources in terms of industry and wage-and-salary employ-
ment. We then show that remaining discrepancies between NETS and ofﬁcial sources are
largely driven by differences among small establishments, where imputation is prevalent.
25To the contrary, overwhelming evidence exists indicating that employer business formation has declined in
recent decades; see, e.g., Decker et al. (2014).
36

===== PAGE 38 =====
Further, we ﬁnd large differences in the education sector, where restricting the NETS sam-
ple to match ofﬁcial sources is difﬁcult (note that this is not really a strike against NETS but
rather a labeling difﬁculty. More involved efforts to determine whether individual establish-
ments are public or private would likely close this gap). While we do show that NETS fails
to adequately capture some key recent developments in mining, construction, and manufac-
turing, the extent to which these problems reﬂect industry labeling is unclear. Correlations
of county-level aggregates between NETS and Census data are strikingly high. Moreover,
at the narrow cell level (geography by industry by establishment size), we ﬁnd correlations
between NETS and ofﬁcial sources that are reassuringly strong in appropriately restricted
samples. Our recommendation is that NETS users ensure results are robust to these sample
restrictions. In related work in progress, we ﬁnd stronger reason for caution when study-
ing dynamic elements of NETS, consistent with previous state-level research. Our view is
that static study is likely to be much safer than study of business dynamics. Note that we
have not investigated the revenue data in NETS, which in principle could also be done by
comparing NETS with public Census sources.
It is also worth noting that the high-quality microdata underpinning CBP, QCEW, and
other ofﬁcial datasets are available through the continually expanding Federal Statistical
Research Data Center (FSRDC) network and the BLS’s visiting researcher program. These
programs allow approved researchers to access data at least as detailed as what are available
in NETS. Participating researchers must ﬁrst submit proposals describing their application
of the data, travel to a location where the data can be accessed securely, and subject all results
to a disclosure process to ensure no sensitive information is released. Much productive
research has been published through this process.26 NETS has the advantage that the only
barrier to access is the subscription fee; it can be used freely on any machine, and output
does not have to undergo a review process; in this sense NETS is an appealing option.
We tend to favor the use of Census and BLS data when possible. Additionally, when ag-
26For
examples,
see
the
Center
for
Economic
Studies
working
paper
series
at
https://ideas.repec.org/s/cen/wpaper.html, and the many papers written using conﬁdential BLS data.
37

===== PAGE 39 =====
gregated data are appropriate, ofﬁcial sources remain the gold standard.27 However, when
microdata are needed and speed or ﬂexibility of analysis are requirements, NETS can be a
tremendously useful resource.
References
Acs, Zoltan, William Parsons, and Spencer Tracy, “High-Impact Firms: Gazelles Revis-
ited,” Technical Report, Small Business Administration, Ofﬁce of Advocacy 2008.
Amezcua, Alejandro S., “Boon or Boondoggle? Business Incubation as Entrepreneurship
Policy.” PhD dissertation, Syracuse University 2010.
Bayard, Kimberly, Ryan A. Decker, and Charles Gilbert, “Natural Disasters and the Mea-
surement of Industrial Production: Hurricane Harvey, a Case Study,” FEDS Notes, 2017.
Becker, Randy, Joel Elvery, Lucia Foster, C. J. Krizan, Sang Nguyen, and David Talanl,
“A Comparison of the Business Registers Used by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and the
Bureau of the Census,” Technical Report 2005.
Choi, Taelim, Anil Rupasingha, John C Robertson, and Nancey Leigh, “The Effects of
High Growth on New Business Survival,” The Review of Regional Studies, 01 2017, 47, 1–23.
, John C. Robertson, and Anil Rupasingha, “High-growth ﬁrms in Georgia,” FRB Atlanta
Working Paper 2013-20, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta December 2013.
27As noted previously, collectors and producers of ofﬁcial data face considerable challenges as well, and a
large literature (much of it written by expert employees of statistical agencies) documents shortcomings of ofﬁ-
cial sources. Yet these sources are simply unrivaled in terms of conceptual consistency and scientiﬁcally driven
measurement due to the explicit measurement goals of their data collection processes and to the professional
and trained staff undertaking the data collection and production; in addition, the statistical agencies are continu-
ally engaged in interactions with the business and academic communities to improve the measurement process.
Moreover, as we show in the appendix, the U.S. is fortunate to have two independently constructed business
registers that, while not in complete harmony, are remarkably consistent and indeed more consistent than is
NETS with either, supporting the case for their accuracy. In this respect, we view NETS as a complement (rather
than a substitute) to ofﬁcial sources.
38

===== PAGE 40 =====
Crane, Leland D., Ryan A. Decker, and Bo Yeon Jang, “Flood Effects,” Unpublished Draft,
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 2017.
Cromwell, Erich W., “Topics on Labor and Public Policy.” PhD dissertation, Florida State
University 2015.
Currie, Janet, Stefano DellaVigna, Enrico Moretti, and Vikram Pathania, “The Effect of
Fast Food Restaurants on Obesity and Weight Gain,” American Economic Journal: Economic
Policy, August 2010, 2 (3), 32–63.
Davis, Steven J., John Haltiwanger, Ron Jarmin, and Javier Miranda, “Volatility and Dis-
persion in Business Growth Rates: Publicly Traded versus Privately Held Firms,” in
“NBER Macroeconomics Annual 2006, Volume 21” NBER Chapters, National Bureau of
Economic Research, Inc, 2007, pp. 107–180.
,
, Ron S. Jarmin, C. J. Krizan, Javier Miranda, Alfred Nucci, and Kristin Sandusky,
“Measuring the Dynamics of Young and Small Businesses: Integrating the Employer and
Nonemployer Universes,” in “Producer Dynamics: New Evidence from Micro Data,” Na-
tional Bureau of Economic Research, 2009, pp. 329–366.
Decker, Ryan, John Haltiwanger, Ron S. Jarmin, and Javier Miranda, “The Role of En-
trepreneurship in US Job Creation and Economic Dynamism,” Journal of Economic Perspec-
tives, 2014, 28 (3), 3–24.
DeSalvo, Bethany, Frank Limehouse, and Shawn D. Klimek, “Documenting the Business
Register and Related Economic Business Data,” Technical Report, Center for Economic
Studies working paper CES-WP-16-17 2016.
Donegan, Mary, “Inside the Triangle: Does Database Selection Alter our Understanding of
Urban Industrial Systems?,” Technical Report 2014.
Echeverri-Carroll, Elsie and Maryann Feldman, “Chasing Entrepreneurial Firms,” Techni-
cal Report 2017.
39

===== PAGE 41 =====
Fairman, Kristin, Lucia Foster, C.J.Krizan, and Ian Rucker, “An Analysis of Key Differ-
ences in Micro Data: Results from the Business List Comparison Project,” Technical Re-
port, Center for Economic Studies working paper CES 08-28 2008.
Greenstone, Michael, Alexandre Mas, and Hoai-Luu Nguyen, “Do Credit Market Shocks
affect the Real Economy? Quasi-Experimental Evidence from the Great Recession and
’Normal’ Economic Times,” Working Paper 20704, National Bureau of Economic Research
November 2014.
and
, “Do Credit Market Shocks affect the Real Economy? Quasi-Experimental Evi-
dence from the Great Recession and ’Normal’ Economic Times,” 2012.
Groizard, Jose L., Priya Ranjan, and Antonio Rodriguez-Lopez, “Trade Costs and Job
Flows: Evidence from Establishment-Level Data,” Economic Inquiry, 2015.
Haltiwanger, John, Ron S. Jarmin, and Javier Miranda, “Who Creates Jobs? Small versus
Large versus Young,” The Review of Economics and Statistics, 2013, 95 (2), 347–361.
Isenberg, Emily, Liana Christin Landivar, and Esther Mezey, “A Comparison Of Person-
Reported Industry To Employer-Reported Industry In Survey And Administrative Data,”
Working Papers 13-47, Center for Economic Studies, U.S. Census Bureau September 2013.
Jarmin, Ron S. and Javier Miranda, “The Longitudinal Business Database,” Technical Re-
port, Center for Economic Studies 2002.
Kolko, Jed and David Neumark, “Do Entreprise Zones Create Jobs? Evidence from Cali-
fornia’s Enterprise Zone Program,” Journal of Urban Economics, 2010, 68 (1).
Mach, Traci L. and John D. Wolken, “Examining the Impact of Credit Access on Small Firm
Survivability,” in “Small Businesses in the Aftermath of the Crisis: International Analyses
and Policies,” Heidelberg: Physica-Verlag HD, 2012, pp. 189–210.
40

===== PAGE 42 =====
Neumark, David, Brandon Wall, and Junfu Zhang, “Do Small Businesses Create More
Jobs? New Evidence for the United States from the National Establishment Time Series,”
The Review of Economics and Statistics, 2011, 93 (1), 16–29.
, Junfu Zhang, and Brandon Wall, “Employment Dynamics and Business Relocation:
New Evidence from the National Establishment Time Series,” Working Paper 11647, Na-
tional Bureau of Economic Research October 2005.
Walls & Associates, “National Establishment Time-Series (NETS) Database,” 2014.
Walls, Donald, “Understanding Data in the NETS Database,” NETS Documentation, 2008.
41

===== PAGE 43 =====
A
Appendix: CBP and QCEW coverage
A.1
CBP coverage
CBP covers private business establishments, with the following exclusions:28
• NAICS 111 and 112 (Crop and animal production)
• NAICS 482 (Rail transportation)
• NAICS 491 (Postal service)
• NAICS 525110, 525120 and 525190 (Health, welfare and vacation funds)
• NAICS 525920 (Trusts, estates and agency accounts)
• NAICS 814 (Private households)
• NAICS 92 (Public administration)
CBP also includes government-run establishments in the following industries:
• NAICS 4248 (Government sponsored wholesale liquor establishments)
• NAICS 44531 (Retail liquor stores)
• NAICS 511130 (Book publishers)
• NAICS 522120 (Federally-chartered savings institutions)
• NAICS 522130 (Federally-chartered credit unions)
• NAICS 662 (Hospitals)
28The
material
in
this
section
is
from
https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/cbp/technical-
documentation/methodology.html
42

===== PAGE 44 =====
A.2
QCEW coverage
We use QCEW tables that exclude federal, state, and local government establishments. The
following industries are partially or entirely excluded from QCEW:29
• NAICS 11 (Agriculture etc.)
• NAICS 482 (Railroads)
• NAICS 813 (Religious groups)
• NAICS 814 (Domestic workers)
When we compare QCEW to CBP, we exclude all 4-digit NAICS which are completely or
partially excluded from either dataset.
29Based on Table A of https://www.bls.gov/cew/cewbultn15.htm#Employment
43

===== PAGE 45 =====
B
Additional Tables and Figures
1998
2000
2002
2004
2006
2008
2010
2012
2014
Year
85
90
95
100
105
110
Millions
CBP
QCEW
Source: CBP, QCEW.
Note: Starting from the CBP and the private-sector QCEW, we exclude the following NAICS, which are (par-
tially) out of scope for either CBP or QCEW: 11, 814, 4248, 4453, 5111, 5221, 622, 4821, 8131
Figure 5: Aggregate employment, CBP versus QCEW (intersection of scopes)
1998
2000
2002
2004
2006
2008
2010
2012
2014
Year
6
6.5
7
7.5
8
8.5
Millions
CBP
QCEW
Source: CBP, QCEW.
Note: Starting from the CBP and the private-sector QCEW, we exclude the following NAICS, which are (par-
tially) out of scope for either CBP or QCEW: 11, 814, 4248, 4453, 5111, 5221, 622, 4821, 8131
Figure 6: Aggregate establishment counts, CBP versus QCEW (intersection of scopes)
44

===== PAGE 46 =====
1998
2000
2002
2004
2006
2008
2010
2012
2014
Year
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Millions of Establishments
NETS raw establishments
NETS payroll establishments
Census all establishments
Census payroll establishments
Source: NETS database, County Business Patterns, Census Nonemployer Statistics.
Note: NETS sample not restricted to CBP scope.
Figure 7: Aggregate establishment counts (including NETS government establishments)
1998
2000
2002
2004
2006
2008
2010
2012
2014
Year
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Millions of Establishments
NETS raw establishments
NETS payroll establishments
Census all establishments
Census payroll establishments
Source: NETS database, County Business Patterns, Census Nonemployer Statistics.
Note: NETS sample restricted to CBP scope.
Figure 8: Aggregate establishment counts (separate NETS lines of business)
45

===== PAGE 47 =====
1998
2000
2002
2004
2006
2008
2010
2012
2014
Year
100
120
140
160
180
200
Millions
NETS raw employment
NETS payroll employment
Census all employment
Census payroll employment
Source: NETS database, County Business Patterns, Census Nonemployer Statistics.
Note: NETS sample not restricted to CBP scope.
Figure 9: Aggregate employment (including NETS government establishments)
1998
2000
2002
2004
2006
2008
2010
2012
2014
Year
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
170
180
Millions
NETS raw employment
NETS payroll employment
Census all employment
Census payroll employment
Source: NETS database, County Business Patterns, Census Nonemployer Statistics.
Note: NETS sample restricted to CBP scope.
Figure 10: Aggregate employment (separate NETS lines of business)
46

===== PAGE 48 =====
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
100
110
120
130
140
150
Millions
Number of Employees
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
Millions
Number of Employees
     Excluding small establishments
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
75
80
85
90
95
Millions
Number of Employees
               Excluding small and large establishments
NETS
CBP
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
5
10
15
20
Millions
Number of Establishments
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
1.8
1.9
2
2.1
2.2
Millions
Number of Establishments
  Excluding small establishments
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
1.8
1.9
2
2.1
2.2
Millions
    Number of Establishments
           Excluding small and large establishments
Source: NETS, CBP
Notes: NETS sample is restricted to CBP scope (NET sample baseline-CBP). "Small" establishments are those
with less than 10 employees. "Large" establishments are those with 1000 or more employees.
Figure 11: NETS versus CBP
47

===== PAGE 49 =====
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
105
110
115
120
125
130
135
Millions
Number of Employees
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
90
95
100
105
110
Millions
Number of Employees
     Excluding small establishments
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
75
80
85
90
Millions
Number of Employees
               Excluding small and large establishments
NETS
CBP
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
5
10
15
20
Millions
Number of Establishments
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
1.7
1.8
1.9
2
2.1
Millions
Number of Establishments
  Excluding small establishments
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Year
1.75
1.8
1.85
1.9
1.95
2
2.05
Millions
    Number of Establishments
           Excluding small and large establishments
Source: NETS, CBP
Notes: NETS sample is restricted to CBP scope, and NAICS 61 is excluded from both datasets (NET sample ex.
61-CBP). "Small" establishments are those with less than 10 employees. "Large" establishments are those with
1000 or more employees.
Figure 12: NETS versus CBP excluding educational services
48

===== PAGE 50 =====
2000
2007
2014
Size class
QCEW
CBP
Pct. diff.
QCEW
CBP
Pct. diff.
QCEW
CBP
Pct. diff.
1 to 4
3439.5
3471.0
−0.91
4438.3
3929.7
12.94
5162.8
3849.4
34.12
5 to 9
1185.4
1242.9
−4.63
1305.5
1327.9
−1.69
1283.1
1273.4
0.76
10 to 19
791.9
825.1
−4.03
872.8
905.5
−3.61
901.4
895.6
0.65
20 to 49
559.1
574.6
−2.69
616.7
626.7
−1.59
626.3
632.0
−0.90
50 to 99
195.8
200.3
−2.25
210.7
215.8
−2.39
212.9
214.8
−0.88
100 to 249
111.2
117.0
−4.96
118.7
122.3
−2.94
118.4
122.0
−3.02
250 to 499
27.1
29.8
−9.13
28.4
30.1
−5.51
28.6
30.3
−5.86
500 to 999
8.4
10.2
−17.85
9.7
10.5
−7.38
9.3
10.5
−11.01
1000+
3.8
5.0
−24.27
3.9
5.1
−23.18
4.0
5.4
−26.35
Source: CBP, QCEW
Notes: Levels are in thousands. Percent differences are CBP less QCEW divided by CBP establishment counts. Both CBP
and QCEW are restricted to the intersection of their scopes. Starting from the CBP and the private-sector QCEW, we ex-
clude the following NAICS, which are (partially) out of scope for either CBP or QCEW: 11, 814, 4248, 4453, 5111, 5221, 622,
4821, 8131.
Table 6: CBP versus QCEW, establishment counts by size class
2000
2007
2014
Size class
QCEW
CBP
Pct. diff.
QCEW
CBP
Pct. diff.
QCEW
CBP
Pct. diff.
1 to 4
5.5
5.9
−7.07
6.8
7.0
−3.12
7.4
6.9
6.85
5 to 9
7.8
8.2
−4.58
8.6
8.8
−1.84
8.5
8.5
0.67
10 to 19
10.7
11.1
−3.93
11.8
12.2
−3.38
12.2
12.1
0.82
20 to 49
16.9
17.4
−2.57
18.6
18.9
−1.39
18.9
19.1
−0.97
50 to 99
13.5
13.8
−2.16
14.5
14.9
−2.57
14.6
14.7
−0.85
100 to 249
16.7
17.6
−5.35
17.8
18.2
−2.38
17.6
18.2
−3.00
250 to 499
9.2
10.1
−9.23
9.7
10.2
−5.14
9.7
10.4
−6.67
500 to 999
5.7
6.9
−17.69
6.6
7.1
−7.48
6.3
7.1
−11.54
1000+
8.0
11.1
−28.13
8.0
11.5
−30.35
8.0
12.6
−36.34
Source: CBP, QCEW
Notes: Levels are in millions. Percent differences are CBP less QCEW divided by CBP employment levels. Both CBP
and QCEW are restricted to the intersection of their scopes. Starting from the CBP and the private-sector QCEW, we
exclude the following NAICS, which are (partially) out of scope for either CBP or QCEW: 11, 814, 4248, 4453, 5111,
5221, 622, 4821, 8131.
Table 7: CBP versus QCEW, employment by size class
49

===== PAGE 51 =====
Percent difference
2000
2007
2014
Size class (Employees)
Emp.
Estab.
Emp.
Estab.
Emp.
Estab.
1 to 4
99.10
59.02
123.77
105.30
174.77
156.24
5 to 9
23.67
23.07
22.90
21.62
45.11
42.17
10 to 19
10.14
8.52
9.48
8.20
0.27
−0.29
20 to 49
11.25
9.18
9.92
7.46
2.15
−0.26
50 to 99
12.13
11.81
10.96
10.55
12.62
10.76
100 to 249
4.42
5.73
1.15
3.10
6.81
8.10
250 to 499
9.02
9.72
4.31
5.54
3.74
4.01
500 to 999
32.51
33.14
7.62
8.88
6.77
7.42
1000+
100.59
78.82
56.40
39.39
64.18
35.30
Aggregate
26.85
38.74
20.99
66.61
26.33
102.76
Aggregate ex.
less than 10
employees
22.48
9.29
13.20
7.95
12.69
1.68
Aggregate ex.
less than 10
and greater than 1000 em-
ployees
11.25
9.09
7.18
7.86
5.38
1.58
Source: NETS, QCEW.
Note: Difference between NETS and QCEW employment as percent of QCEW employment. NETS
sample restricted to QCEW scope.
Table 8: NETS versus QCEW by establishment size
50

===== PAGE 52 =====
Percent difference
2000
2007
2014
Industry
Excl <10
All
Excl <10
All
Excl <10
All
11 Ag., For., Fish., Hunt
−99
−99
−98
−99
−99
−99
21 Mining
54
54
6
10
−14
−12
22 Utilities
−34
−32
−30
−26
−36
−31
23 Construction
−3
6
−5
4
7
23
31-33 Manufacturing
25
27
34
37
43
47
42 Wholesale Trade
19
24
13
18
6
13
44-45 Retail Trade
−13
−3
−9
2
−1
7
48-49 Trans., Warehous.
2
6
−6
1
−18
−6
51 Information
15
20
30
37
39
47
52 Finance, Insurance
35
34
15
20
18
23
53 Real Est., Rent., Leas.
65
67
76
82
74
96
54 Prof., Sci., Tech. Svcs
39
41
24
29
14
25
55 Management
−85
−84
−84
−81
−79
−74
56 Admin., Waste Mgmt
−21
−14
−24
−0
−29
20
61 Education Svcs
441
422
364
347
379
371
62 Health, Social Asst.
15
18
2
8
−8
0
71 Arts, Entertain., Rec.
38
50
29
44
16
38
72 Accom., Food Svcs
−1
2
−5
3
−10
3
81 Other Svcs
−30
−19
−34
−23
−42
−26
Source: NETS and QCEW
Notes: Difference between NETS and QCEW employment as percent of QCEW employment by
NAICS sector. NETS sample restricted to QCEW scope.
Table 9: NETS versus QCEW by sector
51
