
===== PAGE 1 =====
Restaurant survival prediction using machine learning: Do the variance and
sources of customers’ online reviews matter?
Hengyun Li a,1, Anqi Zhou b,1, Xiang (Kevin) Zheng a,1, Jian Xu b, Jing Zhang b,*
a School of Hotel and Tourism Management, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong, China
b School of Data Science and Artificial Intelligence, Dongbei University of Finance and Economics, Dalian, 116025, China
A R T I C L E I N F O
Keywords:
Survival prediction
Review variance
Review source
Machine learning
Restaurant
A B S T R A C T
Restaurant constitutes an essential part of the tourism industry. In times of uncertainty and transition, restaurant
survival prediction is vital for deepening organizations’ understanding of business performance and facilitating
decisions. By tapping into online reviews, a prevalent form of user-generated content, this study identifies review
variance as a leading indicator of restaurants’ survival drawing from data on 2838 restaurants in Boston and their
corresponding reviews. Machine learning–based survival analysis shows that models integrating fine-grained
review variance (i.e., review rating variance, overall review sentiment variance, and fine-grained review
sentiment variance) outperform models that do not account for these factors in restaurant survival prediction
before and during the pandemic. Furthermore, in most cases, expert reviews hold stronger predictive power for
pre-pandemic restaurant survival than non-expert and all forms of reviews. This study contributes to the liter-
ature on business survival prediction and guides industry practitioners in monitoring and enhancing their
enterprises.
1. Introduction
The tourism and hospitality sector is naturally vulnerable and bears
the brunt of crises. Among various business players, small hospitality
businesses, such as restaurants, are often suffered from limited resources
and high fragility, thus being particularly vulnerable to the crisis (Kim
et al., 2021; Wiener-Bronner, 2023). However, these small hospitality
businesses offer remarkable economic and social benefits: for instance,
report from National Restaurant Association (2023) and Statista (2023)
stated that in the United States restaurants have contributed hundreds of
billions of dollars to the national economy and created nearly 12.5
million employments. In addition, restaurant constitutes an essential
part of the tourism industry, attracts considerable tourist expenditure,
and plays a crucial role in tourism experiences (Vu et al., 2019).
Therefore, within an unstable economy and a competitive business
environment, timely research on restaurants’ survival is urgently
needed.
Business survival studies usually involve traditional statistical
methods, obtaining information either through surveys (Chhatwani
et al., 2022) or public databases (Baum¨ohl et al., 2019). These modes of
data collection are simple and easy to perform but come with high costs
and potentially questionable outcomes (e.g., due to relatively small
datasets and restrictive assumptions; (Moncada-Torres et al., 2021).
Advances in information technology have thankfully caused internet big
data to explode, affording researchers and industry practitioners rich
insight into businesses’ survival (Cˆorte-Real et al., 2017). Online re-
views, a common type of electronic word of mouth (eWoM), are
increasingly prominent: they afford readers key information and help
business operators monitor customers’ satisfaction so products can be
improved accordingly (Schuckert et al., 2015).
The burgeoning development of online reviews has drawn much
attention. Numerous tourism and hospitality scholars have examined
how online reviews affect restaurant survival prediction (Li et al., 2023),
hotel performance (Anagnostopoulou et al., 2019), tourists’ willingness
to pay (Belarmino et al., 2021), and consumers’ purchase intentions
(Ladhari & Michaud, 2015). Extensive research has also demonstrated
the influential role of online reviews in businesses’ financial perfor-
mance and long-term success (Fernandes et al., 2021; Li et al., 2023).
Major industry players (e.g., Marriott) have begun tasking individual
staff, or even teams, with monitoring customer reviews to provide timely
responses; hospitality businesses that attend closely to online reviews
perform far better (e.g., in terms of revenue and visibility) than those
* Corresponding author. School of Data Science and Artificial Intelligence, Dongbei University of Finance and Economics, Dalian, 116025, China.
E-mail address: zhangjing_qf@dufe.edu.cn (J. Zhang).
1 The first three authors contribute equally.
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Tourism Management
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/tourman
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2024.105038
Received 26 November 2023; Received in revised form 26 July 2024; Accepted 29 August 2024
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
Available online 13 September 2024 
0261-5177/© 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. 

===== PAGE 2 =====
that do not (Prashar, 2016). Online reviews play an indispensable role in
today’s business environment. Neglecting their importance can thus be
detrimental.
Given this potential, a few studies have integrated online reviews in
business survival prediction (Li et al., 2023; Zhang & Luo, 2023). Li et al.
(2023) adopted aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA) to evaluate the
effects of online review aspect sentiments on restaurant survival pre-
diction. Aspect-based sentiments were found to outperform overall re-
view sentiments in terms of predictive accuracy. In addition, Naumzik
et al. (2022) demonstrated review ratings as pivotal in forecasting res-
taurants’ survival status several months in advance. However, it is un-
known whether and how review variance, referring to the heterogeneity
of review information (e.g., ratings and sentiments), affects business
survival prediction; this role remains understudied (Babi´c Rosario et al.,
2016). Review variance nonetheless possesses rich information value,
such as to guide business practices. On the one hand, such variance re-
flects fluctuations in customers’ attitudes towards specific products. It
hence offers businesses evaluative insights into product performance
and enables relevant adjustments. This type of information holds power
for businesses’ survival, as dynamic customer opinions are central to
businesses’ success. On the other hand, high review variance (e.g.,
approval vs. disapproval) signals effective product differentiation
(Clemons et al., 2006) and can help companies identify niche markets
(Wang et al., 2015). A firm may then choose to focus on and profit from a
particular consumer group by catering to these individuals’ preferences
(e.g., restaurants specializing in niche cuisines). These decisions could
contribute to businesses’ survival beyond mass market attention.
Accessibility-diagnosticity theory (Feldman & Lynch, 1988) provides
persuasive theoretical insights on the role of review variance in affecting
business survival. Generally, this theory states that people tend to make
decisions based on two main factors: accessibility and diagnosticity.
While accessibility refers to the extent to which the critical information
relevant to people’s decision-making behaviors can be available and
easily accessed for cognitive processing, diagnosticity denotes the de-
gree of sufficiency of the accessed information to help people arrive at
final decisions (Menon et al., 1995). Therefore, when we look at online
review variance as an information cue through this lens, the accessibility
aspect can be illustrated as the presence of both positive and negative
online reviews consumers encounter during information searching
process. For diagnosticity, review variance can signal both product
quality (e.g., high variance may denote product quality inconsistency)
and taste diversity (e.g., high variance may also denote the uniqueness
of products that cater to niche markets). These information cues are
poised to have profound impact on consumer decisions. As consumer
decisions (i.e., purchase or not purchase) play a vital role in influencing
product demand, which is in turn crucial to business survival, we
therefore postulate that online review variance is influential in business
survival. Given the inherent complexity of review variance, with no
scholarly consensus reached regarding its impact on business survival (e.
g., high or low variance matters more), this topic merits further research
to generate more insights. Specifically, this study investigates the role of
online review variance in predicting business survival within the
restaurant sector, a crucial area in the tourism and hospitality industry.
Apart from review content, review sources have ignited scholarly
interest. Revealing a message source affects customers’ perceptions of a
review and might inform personal choices (Hass, 1982; Liu & Park,
2015). Reviews from experts are seen as more trustworthy and helpful
than those from everyday users (Baek et al., 2012; Lo & Yao, 2019).
Drawing from source credibility theory (Ohanian, 1990), expertise is
one of the key aspects contributing to message credibility and persua-
siveness. Signaling theory, another classic theory aiming to reduce in-
formation asymmetry between information sender and receiver and
reach better communication process and judgement (Spence, 2002), also
provides deep insights on the significance of message source (i.e., re-
views written by experts). Specifically, in online review context, review
senders’ expert status, which can be treated as a signal to review
receivers, can benefit receivers in making better decision based on the
information gained from this signal. Consequently, consumers’ percep-
tions and decisions influenced by different signals can affect product
demand, which ultimately can affect business survival. We draw on this
line of theoretical deduction by exploring whether and how review
sources affect business survival prediction.
Using the restaurant businesses as the example, overall, this study is
based on three objectives. First, we examine the impact of online review
variance on restaurant survival prediction before and during the
pandemic. We also consider variance in review sentiment, both in
general and in detail (e.g., price and location). Second, we investigate
the roles of review sources (e.g., expert reviews) in restaurant survival
prediction. Finally, by employing interpretable machine learning–based
survival prediction to answer our research questions, we employ Kaplan-
Meier (KM) curves to analyze the impact of specific variables on
restaurant survival and identify salient factors via a feature importance
algorithm.
2. Literature review
2.1. Business survival/failure research
Amid global uncertainty and an ever-changing business environ-
ment, researchers have increasingly striven to rationalize business fail-
ure and heighten firms’ likelihood of surviving (Amankwah-Amoah &
Wang, 2019). Business failure is broadly defined as firms’ inability to
weather performance declines due to external and/or internal events,
resulting in closures and identity loss (Amankwah-Amoah, 2016).
Studies have addressed the causes of business failure from exogenous
and endogenous perspectives. The former view ponders macro-level
factors such as macroeconomic conditions, market competition, the
institutional setting, the political environment, and the technological
landscape (Soto-Simeone et al., 2020). Abed (2022) systematically
reviewed
the
COVID-19
pandemic’s
massive
economic
and
market-related impacts on firms’ survival in industries including
financing, marketing, and tourism and hospitality. This crisis has posed
numerous survival threats. The industry environment in which busi-
nesses operate is similarly crucial. For example, airlines and hospitality
firms tend to survive for a shorter time than firms in the technology and
pharmacy industries (Hensler et al., 1997). Higher business hazard rates
typically correspond to later phases of the industry life cycle as pro-
gression slows (i.e., fewer innovations) but competition intensifies
(Agarwal et al., 2002). In short, industry-specific entry rates, scale
economies, potential, and dynamics have varying effects on businesses’
survival (Manj´on-Antolín & Arauzo-Carod, 2008).
The endogenous perspective emphasizes internal (micro-level) fac-
tors like the attributes of firms (Baum¨ohl et al., 2019; Cucculelli &
Peruzzi, 2020; Parsa et al., 2011; Resende et al., 2016) and of business
owners or teams (Chhatwani et al., 2022). Parsa et al. (2011) studied
restaurants’ survival in Cobb County, Georgia, USA. Findings showed
that restaurants’ survival rates increased in line with the establishments’
size and operational complexity. Resende et al. (2016) further pointed
out that small and medium-sized enterprises’ survival rates were related
to firm size: establishments that were initially smaller had lower survival
rates than those that were initially larger. Cucculelli and Peruzzi (2020)
discovered that poor financial conditions, family ownership, and a small
size hindered small and medium-sized enterprises’ survival and could
lead to business closures. Digital maturity was also found to be closely
associated with businesses’ survival during the pandemic: mature en-
terprises could adapt better than immature firms in uncertain times
(Fletcher & Griffiths, 2020).
As for data sources, business failure prediction models traditionally
use structured input data (e.g., financial ratios) collected from internal
company sources to assess business circumstances and forecast survival
(Lee, 2014; Wieprow & Gawlik, 2021). However, this approach provides
few insights into operational improvements based on a loosely defined
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
2 

===== PAGE 3 =====
business status (e.g., healthy vs. filing for bankruptcy) (Geng et al.,
2015). Companies therefore cannot take concrete steps to tackle prob-
lems and save the business beyond identifying firms’ operational status.
Relatedly, some researchers have incorporated unstructured textual
data (e.g., from company disclosures) into business failure prediction
models (Cecchini et al., 2010; Mai et al., 2019). Yet the scope of fore-
casting remains limited to large public companies that are legally
required to periodically report financial information. Small-scale busi-
nesses, such as everyday restaurants, have been largely neglected due to
data unavailability (Borchert et al., 2023). Survey data routinely pre-
clude
generalizable
results
when
predicting
businesses’
survival
(Chhatwani et al., 2022). A flexible and powerful approach is needed to
overcome these types of constraints.
2.2. Review variance and business survival prediction
The expansion of the internet has rendered online reviews a popular
information source for consumers’ product evaluations and decisions (Li
et al., 2023; Schuckert et al., 2015; Xiang et al., 2017). Three review
aspects are often researched: volume (i.e., the number of reviews
available), valence (i.e., customers’ affective attitudes towards prod-
ucts), and variance (i.e., the heterogeneity in consumers’ opinions about
products) (Babi´c Rosario et al., 2016). Of these characteristics, review
variance has been addressed the least aside from a few attempts (Langan
et al., 2017; Park & Park, 2013; Sun, 2012; Wu et al., 2021). No study
appears to have explicitly examined how review variance affects busi-
nesses’ survival; however, findings regarding review variance in other
contexts (e.g., retail) imply a close relationship between these two
variables.
Review variance has been shown to possess informational value (e.
g., about consumers’ approval or disapproval of a product). It also af-
fects people’s willingness to pay (Wu et al., 2013), customers’ purchase
intentions (Wang et al., 2015), product sales (Moe & Trusov, 2011),
perceived review helpfulness (Mudambi & Schuff, 2010), and busi-
nesses’ financial returns (Luo et al., 2013). Because these factors are
directly or indirectly associated with businesses’ survival, review vari-
ance could be useful in predicting it. Review variance is inherently
complex: depending on conditions (e.g., product types or consumers’
risk attitudes), its effect can be negative, positive, insignificant, or of
varying magnitude (Mudambi & Schuff, 2010; Park & Park, 2013; Wang
et al., 2015). High review variance might adversely affect sales by
signaling a potential mismatch and limiting a product’s reach in the
mass market. High review variance can also be a positive sign of product
differentiation (Clemons et al., 2006)—it can promote sales by signi-
fying a product’s distinctiveness, thereby exposing a niche market
(Wang et al., 2015). Product reviews with high variance may thus pre-
sent perspectives on product features that people love or hate. This
uniqueness can stimulate consumers’ purchase intentions if a product
caters to a niche market’s demands. Review variance could potentially
facilitate business survival prediction in this regard. Insights on review
variance from product or customer perspectives (e.g., Moe & Trusov,
2011; Sun, 2012) have not yet carried over to business survival pre-
diction, which is paramount in an era of global uncertainty.
2.3. Review sources and business survival prediction
In addition to review characteristics, review sources are likely to
assist in business survival prediction. Experts are often thought to have
domain-specific knowledge (Wu et al., 2021). Accordingly, expert re-
views
usually
seem
credible
and
readily
shape
consumers’
product-related attitudes, perceived review helpfulness, and subsequent
decisions (Lo & Yao, 2019). Popular source identity cues include a re-
viewer’s badge level (Baek et al., 2012), a review’s number of “useful”
votes (Filieri et al., 2019), and how many reviews a person has written
(Lee et al., 2011)—all of which convey a reviewer’s expertise. Studies in
tourism and hospitality have shown that, compared with non-expert
reviews, expert reviews more strongly affect people’s travel choices
(Hoang & Khuong, 2015) and views on review usefulness: these types of
reviews alleviate information asymmetry as consumers browse online
feedback (Liu & Park, 2015). An expert source can also affect reviewers’
rating behavior (Zhang et al., 2016). Although scholars have not spe-
cifically examined how review sources (e.g., expert reviews) shape
business survival prediction, the literature suggests that these sources
could inform customers’ attitudes and behavior, which are key to
businesses’ survival (Fan et al., 2023).
In summary, online reviews represent an important type of internet
big data. Yet research that integrates this data source in business sur-
vival prediction remains thin: much of the literature has concentrated on
review aspects (e.g., review ratings and review topics) besides review
variance and review sources. Table 1 displays studies on the roles of
certain review aspects in business survival prediction. For ensuring
relevance, completeness, and quality, the selection criteria are: 1) all
previous articles pertinent to using online reviews for business survival
prediction; and 2) all articles are sourced from SSCI-indexed journals or
high-quality computer science conferences. The relative lack of atten-
tion to review variance and sources has hampered managerial implica-
tions that may enhance such prediction.
3. Methodology
3.1. Data collection
We obtained data on restaurants in Boston, Massachusetts from Yelp,
a well-known review platform. The city of Boston is a popular tourist
destination boasting a dining culture rich with restaurants and cuisine
types. Our dataset is thus representative. Information on restaurant
characteristics was drawn from 528,592 reviews of 2838 restaurants
posted between October 12, 2004, and October 8, 2021 (Yelp only
provides data to this time point when we accessed their opened public
database). Restaurant attribute data included each restaurant’s price
level, cuisine type, zip code, and state of survival. Review data consisted
of review content; review ratings; the number of “funny,” “useful,” and
“cool” votes; the review date; and the reviewer’s “Elite” year, as shown
in Fig. 1.
3.2. Variable construction
3.2.1. Opening and exit times
To study restaurants’ survival status, we needed to determine when
each business launched (i.e., opening time) and whether and/or when it
ceased operating (i.e., exit time). Although Yelp provides information
regarding the restaurants’ closed status, it does not provide the exact
time of business exit. We thus followed Zhang and Luo’s (2023) method
to identify opening times by referring to each restaurant’s earliest re-
view. We adopted keyword matching combined with manual labeling
(Li et al., 2023; Zhang & Luo, 2023) to specify exit times. First, we
created a keyword list indicating restaurants’ closure status based on
129,614 Yelp reviews of 1191 closed restaurants in Boston. For instance,
the following restaurant’s exit time was identified as October 20, 2012
based on the keyword “close”: “After its 137 years in business Locke Ober
the landmark Boston restaurant that opened in 1875 has closed on October
20, 2012.” (The keyword shown in the example review is “closed” as it
was written in the present tense. We however used the keyword “close”
after word normalisation in the following study for business exit
identification).
After creating label-based rules (see Appendix A), we employed eight
annotators to discern restaurants’ exit times through two stages: a
training stage and a final labeling stage (see Appendix A for details). All
closed restaurants’ exit times were identified. In total, 225 restaurants’
exits were overtly noted in reviews. For the 966 restaurants for which
this detail was unavailable, the date of the last review was used as the
exit time.
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
3 

===== PAGE 4 =====
3.2.2. Business attribute characterization
Several business-related factors can affect restaurants’ survival
(Parsa et al., 2011), including chain business, price, the number of
competitors, customer engagement, review ratings, review length,
number of reviews, and business age. Relevant factors were extracted
from our dataset as attributes for survival prediction.
Restaurants with more than five branches of the same name are
considered chains (Hutzschenreuter et al., 2021) and were labeled as 1
in our study; all other restaurants were deemed independent and labeled
as 0. Price levels were denoted as 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively corre-
sponding to Yelp’s price ranges (i.e., $, $$, $$$, $$$$). Nearby
competition also influences businesses’ profitability and survival
(Hutzschenreuter et al., 2021) and was factored into our predictive
model. Following Li et al. (2023) approach, the number of competitors
for a restaurant in a given year was first calculated by considering the
number of restaurants having the same zip code per year. The average
number of competitors since a restaurant’s inception was then calcu-
lated to reflect the competitive landscape. Bakhshi et al. (2015) found
that customer engagement, operationalized as the sum of each review’s
“funny,” “useful,” and “cool” votes, was a sound indicator of restaurant
quality. We measured each restaurant’s customer engagement by
totaling these three vote types and computing the average customer
engagement each year.
Moreover, review ratings quantitatively demonstrate customer
satisfaction and are crucial in restaurant survival prediction (Naumzik
et al., 2022). We therefore considered this indicator by calculating
average customer ratings for each restaurant. In order to explore the
impact of a restaurant’s operating state at a certain observation time on
its subsequent future survival, we calculated the restaurant’s business
age based on the actual number of years that the restaurant had been in
business at a given time of observation. Finally, we calculated the
average review length and the average number of reviews. Rows 2–9 in
Table 2 summarize variables related to the chosen business attributes.
3.2.3. Customer review sentiment
Customer review sentiment shows how people perceive a restaurant
Table 1
Previous studies of business survival prediction using online reviews.
Authors
Data & Source(s)
Method(s)
Relevant Review Aspects
Key Findings
Lian et al.
(2017)
Numerical and textual
review data from
Dianping
Logistic regression, gradient boosted
decision tree, support vector machine
Review ratings
Review topics extracted from text
The model containing all predictors produced
the best results. Review text had the strongest
predictive power among all predictors.
Tao and Zhou
(2020)
Numerical and textual
review data from Yelp
and TripAdvisor
Convolutional neural network-long short-
term memory based prediction model
Review sentiment
Review time spans
Review topics extracted from text
The proposed deep-learning model showed
satisfactory prediction performance and
generalizability. The model with a 12-month
span outperformed other time spans in terms of
prediction. Food, ambience, and service were
the top-ranked features related to business
closures.
Vallapuram
et al. (2021)
Numerical,
geographical, textual,
and image review data
from Yelp
Boosting Decision Trees (GBDT), Logistic
Regression (LR), Support Vector Machine
(SVM) and Multilayer Perceptron (MLP).
Review ratings
Review sentiment
Bag-of-Words
Business attributes and linguistic features have
the highest predictive power
Li et al. (2022)
Numerical and textual
review data from
Dianping and Yelp
A prediction model comprising input, co-
attention, graph representation, joint
learning modules
Review keywords extracted from
text
The proposed joint learning framework
improved survival prediction and produced
interpretable results.
Naumzik et al.
(2022)
Numerical review data
from Yelp
Variable-duration hidden Markov model
Review rating sequence
The model generated satisfactory results with a
balanced accuracy of 78.02% and enabled
prediction several months in advance.
Fan et al.
(2023)
Numerical and textual
review data from
Airbnb
Discrete-time hazard model
Aspect-based review sentiment
By mining customers’ service perceptions about
Airbnb listings from online reviews, the model
indicated that service differentially affected
listings’ survival (i.e., for shared and non-shared
listings).
Li et al. (2023)
Numerical and textual
review data from Yelp
Conditional survival forest model with
ABSA
Aspect-based review sentiment
Aspect-based review sentiment improved
restaurant survival prediction compared to
overall review sentiment. Location and tastiness
sentiments were essential for restaurant survival
prediction.
Current study
Numerical and textual
review data from Yelp
Machine learning–based survival
prediction with cutting-edge
algorithms (Bayes, support vector
machine, multilayer perceptron,
XGBoost)
1) Review variance: rating,
overall sentiment, and fine-
grained sentiment; 2) review
source: expert vs. non-expert vs.
all reviews
Models with (vs. without) review variance (i.
e., rating variance, overall sentiment
variance, and fine-grained sentiment
variance) generated more accurate
predictions. Models using expert reviews,
compared with those using non-expert and
all reviews, produced better predictions.
Fig. 1. Sample review.
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
4 

===== PAGE 5 =====
and can influence a brand’s reputation, WOM, consumers’ decisions,
and general loyalty (Lee, 2017). Positive sentiments tend to bring a
restaurant more diners and better WOM, whereas negative reviews can
compromise a restaurant’s competitiveness. Sentiment is thus critical to
restaurants’ survival. We extracted overall sentiments and specific sen-
timents from restaurant reviews. ABSA is a more complex task compared
to traditional textual sentiment analysis and involves identifying the
sentiment expressed in each aspect (Hoang et al., 2019). BERT has
demonstrated its ability to yield favorable results in natural language
processing tasks owing to the extensive textual data it has been trained
on (Wang et al., 2018). For tasks such as ABSA, BERT contributes to
performance
improvement.
Several
methods
can
be
used
for
BERT-based ABSA, such as ABSA-BERT-pair (Sun et al., 2019),
LCF-BERT (Zeng et al., 2019), and pipeline-based analysis approaches.
Pipeline methods provide an existing interface to make predictions that
can be directly employed on a dataset for immediate use. Li et al. (2023)
have been conducted to validate the performance of pipeline method for
ABSA using open-source dataset with a confusion matrix result of 0.85.
For this current study, BERT-based ABSA2 (Li et al., 2023) was
employed to calculate fine-grained sentiment scores for aspects such as
tastiness, service, location, price, and environment (Nakayama & Wan,
2019; Padillo Jr et al., 2022) using keywords from a previous study (Li
et al., 2023). Both review text and aspect words were used as inputs to
perform the above sentiment analysis. Positive scores (Sp), neutral
scores (Sneu), and negative scores (Sn) were obtained for each charac-
teristic and ranged from 0 to 1, with higher values denoting a higher
possibility of belonging to that sentiment. We calculated the final
sentiment for each aspect as Saspect =
Sp
Sp+Sneu+Sn , where a higher senti-
ment value conveys a more positive sentiment. We also averaged these
five scores as the overall review sentiment and included it in our model
(from a restaurant’s opening until a certain time; see “avg.s” in rows
10–15 in Table 2) to discern how review sentiment affects survival
prediction. In addition, we show descriptive statistics of variables in
Appendix B Table A1.
3.2.4. Review variance characterization
Fluctuations in review ratings, known as review variance, can in-
fluence businesses’ survival (Sun, 2012). Variance represents the degree
of volatility in data, with a small amount indicating a relatively stable
change in a variable and a large amount implying high volatility. To
investigate how fluctuating review ratings inform restaurants’ survival,
we included review rating variance in our model (i.e., var.rating; see
row 16 in Table 2 for details). It was calculated based on all review
ratings for a given restaurant during a certain period to determine this
feature’s role in restaurants’ survival. We additionally explored whether
the volatility of review sentiment scores influenced survival prediction.
Variance in the five aspects of sentiment scores and the overall senti-
ment score (i.e., var.s; see rows 17–22 in Table 2) were incorporated into
our model to identify the impact of customer sentiment variance. In
addition, the distribution of the variance variables was also analyzed in
terms of restaurant chain status and the restaurants with different
average review volume levels (average review volume less than 10, 10 to
20, 20 to 50, and more than 50), as detailed in Appendix C.
3.2.5. Time-varying review characterization
Duan et al. (2008) considered cumulative and daily WOM to deter-
mine whether shifts in overall WOM and current WOM informed con-
sumers’ decisions and businesses’ operations. Accumulated reviews
reflect a restaurant’s overall operations. These operations can change
with time, such as when chefs are hired, menus are updated, or service
improves. Recent reviews reflect a restaurant’s current operations and
attract people’s attention when browsing. Recent reviews are therefore
more likely to influence diners’ decisions and, in turn, restaurants’
survival. We identified a restaurant’s cumulative WOM by extracting a
variable (Cumt) from all reviews up to time point t in the current period
(the period was measured in years, with t denoting the end of the year
Table 2
Variables and descriptions.
No.
Variable
Description
Measurement
1
State of
survival
A restaurant’s survival status
at the current time point
Determined manually by
annotators and
calculated by the author
2
Price
Yelp’s labels of $, $$$, $$$,
and $$$$ are denoted as 1, 2,
3, and 4, respectively
Derived directly from
Yelp
3
Chain business
A restaurant with more than
five stores of the same name
is a chain (=1, otherwise =
0)
Calculated by the author
4
Business age
Age from opening time to
observation time point
Calculated by the author
5
Avg. No. of
competitors
Average restaurant
competitor density per year
based on the number of
restaurants in the same zip
code
Calculated by the author
6
Avg. amount of
engagement
Average sum of “funny,”
“useful,” and “cool” votes on
the reviews for a restaurant
Calculated by the author
7
Avg. length of
reviews
Average word count of the
reviews for a restaurant
Calculated by the author
8
Avg. review
volume
Average number of the
reviews for a restaurant
Calculated by the author
9
Avg. rating
Average rating of the reviews
for a restaurant
Calculated by the author
10
Avg. location
senti.
Average sentiment score on
location in the reviews for a
restaurant
Calculated by the author
based on BERT-based
ABSA method
11
Avg. tastiness
senti.
Average sentiment score on
tastiness in the reviews for a
restaurant
Calculated by the author
based on BERT-based
ABSA method
12
Avg. service
senti.
Average sentiment score on
service in the reviews for a
restaurant
Calculated by the author
based on BERT-based
ABSA method
13
Avg. price
senti.
Average sentiment score on
price in the reviews for a
restaurant
Calculated by the author
based on BERT-based
ABSA method
14
Avg.
atmosphere
senti.
Average sentiment score on
atmosphere in the reviews
for a restaurant
Calculated by the author
based on BERT-based
ABSA method
15
Avg. general
senti.
Average sentiment score in
general of the reviews for a
restaurant
Calculated by the author
16
Var. rating
Variance in the rating of the
reviews for a restaurant
Calculated by the author
17
Var. location
senti.
Variance in sentiment score
on location in the reviews for
a restaurant
Calculated by the author
based on BERT-based
ABSA method
18
Var. tastiness
senti.
Variance in sentiment score
on tastiness in the reviews
for a restaurant
Calculated by the author
based on BERT-based
ABSA method
19
Var. service
senti.
Variance in sentiment score
on service in the reviews for
a restaurant
Calculated by the author
based on BERT-based
ABSA method
20
Var. price senti.
Variance in sentiment score
on price in the reviews for a
restaurant
Calculated by the author
based on BERT-based
ABSA method
21
Var.
atmosphere
senti.
Variance in sentiment score
on atmosphere in the reviews
for a restaurant
Calculated by the author
based on BERT-based
ABSA method
22
Var. general
senti.
Variance in sentiment score
in general of the reviews for
a restaurant
Calculated by the author
Notes. Each “Avg.” and “Var.” variable included three time-varying subsets (i.e.,
OnePeriodt, Cumt, and Changet). This table only lists 22 variables without de-
tailing these subsets; the study included 58 variables in total. No.6-22 Variables
are recreated based on full, Elite, and non-Elite datasets.
2 https://pypi.org/project/aspect-based-sentiment-analysis/.
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
5 

===== PAGE 6 =====
for the current period). We also introduced a one-period current variable
(OnePeriodt) by extracting variables from reviews posted in the current
period. Changes in restaurant reviews (e.g., initial negative feedback has
given way to recent positive feedback) may shape consumers’ percep-
tions of and trust in an establishment to ultimately inform its reputation
and profile. The restaurant’s long-term viability can then be affected. We
used the difference between the one-period current variable (OnePer-
iodt) of reviews posted in the current period and the cumulative variable
(Cumt-1) accumulated up to the previous period as the change variable
(Changet) for the current period. See Appendix B Table A2 for descrip-
tive statistics of variables.
3.3. Survival prediction algorithms
We performed binary classification on our data (Li et al., 2022;
Zhang & Luo, 2023) to predict restaurants’ survival status in detail (i.e.,
whether a restaurant will survive in the future). We used multiple
classification algorithms to assess findings’ robustness: statistics-based
machine learning (naive Bayes classifier [Bayes]); kernel-based ma-
chine learning (support vector machine [SVM]); a neural network–based
model (multilayer perceptron [MLP]); and an integrated method
(eXtreme gradient boosting [XGBoost])(Kotsiantis et al., 2007).
The Bayes model is based on Bayes’ theorem, which is normally used
to manage classification and regression problems; it can deal with a lack
of, or ambiguity in, prior knowledge during classification tasks
(Lampinen & Vehtari, 2001). However, to achieve optimal performance,
the Bayes model typically assumes that sample data are independently
distributed. SVM is a kernel-based binary classification model that can
solve high-dimensional problems in the feature space and deal with
interactions between nonlinear features. It is a key machine learning
method in survival analysis (Ding et al., 2021). MLP is a neural net-
work–based model that addresses nonlinear separable problems. This
technique is widely used for classification, model recognition, experi-
ence modeling, and other purposes (Park & Lek, 2016). It has also been
used to predict breast cancer patients’ survival and has shown an ac-
curacy of up to 88.2% (Kalafi et al., 2019). Finally, XGBoost is another
popular integrated machine learning algorithm based on gradient
boosting. It possesses high efficiency, flexibility, and convenience and is
suitable for calculating problems that involve many predictors (Danciu
et al., 2022). We projected restaurants’ survival with Bayes, SVM, MLP,
and XGBoost and identified the algorithm producing the most accurate
predictions. Detailed specification of parameters for the four algorithms
used in our experiments is included in Appendix D, Table A11.
3.4. Experimental design
We designed four prediction models to test how review variance and
review source affect restaurants’ survival: base model, base + var.r
model, base + avg.s model, and base + avg.s + var.r + var.s model.
These models and their corresponding variables are shown in Table 3.
All variables except chain business, price, and business age were trans-
formed based on three time spans (i.e., OnePeriodt, Cumt, and Changet).
We compared these models’ predictive capacity with and without
variance-related variables to forecast restaurants’ survival. Specifically,
we analyzed how review rating variance influences survival by
comparing the predictive performance of our base model and base + var.
r model. We similarly evaluated the impacts of variance in review rat-
ings and text sentiment by comparing the base + avg.s and base + avg.s
+ var.r + var.s models. By doing so, we were able to clarify whether
variance-related variables affected restaurant survival prediction. To
measure these variables’ evolving effects on models’ predictive capa-
bilities, we forecasted restaurants’ survival for one year ahead and
multiple years ahead. Our datasets were further stratified into “Elite”
and “non-Elite” categories to identify differences in features’ predictive
power, particularly in terms of variance, by examining how Elite, non-
Elite, and all reviews implied restaurants’ survival. We also explored
whether variance in Elite reviews yielded more promising predictions.
Furthermore, we also predicted restaurant survival before the COVID-19
and during the COVID-19 separately in order to compare the impact of
the pandemic on restaurant survival prediction. Models’ performance
was assessed using several metrics drawn from earlier work (Liao et al.,
2020; Zhang & Luo, 2023): area under the curve (AUC), sensitivity,
specificity, Kullback–Leibler (KL) divergence, precision, and the F1
score.
3.4.1. One-year-ahead survival prediction
To start, we used data from 2014 to 2019 as data prior to the COVID-
19 and compared the predictive performance of four groups of models
based on four algorithms to analyze whether variance-related variables
enhanced one-year-ahead restaurant survival prediction. We defined
each period as a calendar year (e.g., for the year 2014, t = 2014) to offer
investors and managers extended lead time (vs. monthly predictions)
when allocating resources. Additionally, because some restaurants may
not receive new reviews within a given month, using a yearly (vs.
monthly) unit of analysis mitigated data sparsity and improved our
models’ stability.
To ensure the predictive model could be generalized to restaurants
outside our dataset, we forecasted the survival status of out-of-sample
restaurants as well. We specifically conducted 10-fold cross-validation
by dividing the samples in each period (i.e., each year) into 10 even
subsets. We then calibrated the model using nine subsets and tested its
performance to predict restaurants’ survival in the remaining subset. For
instance, we first used restaurants that survived in 2014 as our sample
and extracted variables from reviews accumulated for these restaurants
between 2004 and the end of 2014. These restaurants’ survival status in
2015 served as their survival label; that is, restaurants that survived in
2015 were labeled 1 and 0 otherwise (using Xi2014 to predict yi2015, i
denotes the restaurant). We then trained the model using restaurants
from 90% of the sample and tested its predictive power using restaurants
from the remaining 10% of the sample. Again using 10-fold cross-
validation, we performed 10 predictions for each yearly task, with the
annual outcome being the average of these 10 predictions. Overall, in
the one-year-ahead experiment, we extracted features based on reviews
from the restaurant opening to different observation times t (t = 2014,
2015, …, 2018), and performed five sets of tasks to predict restaurants’
survival in 2015–2019 (e.g., we used data from 2004 to 2014 to predict
the survival status of out-of-sample restaurants in 2015 and so forth).
Evaluation metrics for the final one-year-ahead predictions were the
average of the metrics from the five separate sets of prediction results.
Our data were imbalanced; for example, among restaurants that
survived until the end of 2014, 6.831% closed in 2015. Imbalanced
datasets can cause the machine learning model being overly trained on
Table 3
Models and variables.
Model
Variables
Base
Price, Chain business, Business age, Avg. No. of competitors,
Avg. amount of engagement, Avg. length of review, Avg.
review volume, Avg. rating
Base + var.r
Price, Chain business, Business age, Avg. No. of competitors,
Avg. amount of engagement, Avg. length of review, Avg.
review volume, Avg. rating, Var. rating
Base + avg.s
Price, Chain business, Business age, Avg. No. of competitors,
Avg. amount of engagement, Avg. length of review, Avg.
review volume, Avg. rating, Avg. location senti., Avg.
tastiness senti., Avg. service senti., Avg. price senti., Avg.
atmosphere senti., Avg. general senti.
Base + avg.s + var.r
+ var.s
Price, Chain business, Business age, Avg. No. of competitors,
Avg. amount of engagement, Avg. length of review, Avg.
review volume, Avg. rating, Avg. location senti., Avg.
tastiness senti., Avg. service senti., Avg. price senti., Avg.
atmosphere senti., Avg. general senti., Var. rating, Var.
location senti., Var. tastiness senti., Var. service senti., Var.
price senti., Var. atmosphere senti., Var. general senti.
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
6 

===== PAGE 7 =====
the majority class while performing poorly on the minority class.
Consequently, the model may predict the majority class and neglect the
minority class, compromising its generalisation capabilities (Yu & Liu,
2004). We thus employed the SMOTE algorithm for oversampling to
balance our data based on 50% of the restaurants closing. The balanced
dataset was applied for model training and prediction. We show the
sample sizes of restaurants in different experiments in Table A3 in Ap-
pendix B.
3.4.2. Multiple-years-ahead survival prediction
Forecasting a restaurant’s survival beyond one year can be chal-
lenging, but extending predictions into the future can facilitate resource
allocation and strategic planning. We therefore examined our four
models’ abilities to predict restaurants’ survival several years ahead.
We predicted restaurants’ survival within the next Δt years,
assuming that a restaurant owner would not see future reviews (e.g.,
using data before the end of 2014 to predict whether a restaurant would
survive until 2016). We used Xit to predict restaurants’ survival in year yi
(t+Δt) (Δt = 2, 3, 4, 5). Four models (base, base + var.r, base + avg.s, and
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s) were trained for each Δt. To match the
above analyses, we also predicted the survival of out-of-sample restau-
rants using 10-fold cross-validation. Furthermore, to verify if variance-
related variables improved models’ predictive capacity for longer-term
survival, we completed paired comparisons of the prediction results
for many years ahead (i.e., the base model vs. the base + var.r model; the
base + avg.s model vs. the base + avg.s + var.r + var.s model).
3.4.3. Survival prediction based on expert and non-expert reviews
Yelp certifies reviewers as “Elite” if they write many reviews or if
their reviews are frequently deemed helpful. Elite reviewers are usually
actively engaged and spend considerable time and effort contributing to
the online review community (Li et al., 2017). Reviews from Elite
members (hereafter referred to as “expert reviews”) also often provide
more in-depth content (e.g., real-world experiences or unique perspec-
tives) to inform consumers. This information can influence individuals’
decisions along with businesses’ prosperity (Tucker, 2011). Reviews
posted by non-Elite members (hereafter referred to as “non-expert re-
views”) may contain vague or misleading information. Survival pre-
diction results based on features from expert reviews may differ from
those based on features from non-expert reviews; variance-related var-
iables from expert reviews may yield superior prediction outcomes. To
compare the impacts of reviews from Elite users, non-Elite users, and all
users on restaurants’ survival, we categorized all reviews as either
expert or non-expert. First, we collected Yelp user data (i.e., user ID and
user’s Elite year) and review data (i.e., user ID and review time). Second,
we classified reviews as either expert or non-expert by matching the user
ID and checking whether the review time fell within the user’s Elite year.
This process resulted in three datasets: a full dataset (528,592 reviews),
an Elite dataset (109,740 expert reviews), and a non-Elite dataset (418,
852 non-expert reviews).
Specifically, in line with the previous experimental design, we
forecasted survival for one year and multiple years ahead using expert
and non-expert reviews, respectively (including out-of-sample restau-
rants via 10-fold cross-validation). We also compared the effects of
variance features from expert reviews, non-expert reviews and all re-
views on restaurant survival prediction. These experiments, based on
three types of reviews, deepened our understanding of how expert re-
views and variance-related variables influence businesses’ survival.
3.4.4. Survival prediction during the COVID-19
The COVID-19 brought a significant challenge to restaurant survival.
We conducted additional experiments to predict restaurant survival
during the COVID-19 period. Specifically, we forecasted one-year-ahead
and multiple-years-ahead restaurants’ survival during the COVID-19 in
full dataset, Elite dataset, and non-Elite dataset, respectively. In one-
year-ahead survival prediction during the COVID-19, we conducted 2
sets of prediction tasks to predict restaurant survival in 2020 and 2021
(i.e., using data from 2004 to 2019 to predict the survival status of out-
of-sample restaurants in 2020 and using data from 2004 to 2020 to
predict the survival status of out-of-sample restaurants in 2021). For
multiple-years-ahead survival prediction during the COVID-19, we
predicted restaurant survival in the next two years (i.e., using data from
2004 to 2019 to predict the survival status of out-of-sample restaurants
in 2021). Except for the change of sample data, all other experimental
steps remained the same as in the experiments before the COVID-19.
4. Results
4.1. One-year-ahead survival prediction
To analyze the impacts of different features on one-year-ahead sur-
vival prediction, the base model, base + var.r model, base + var.s model,
and base + var.s + var.r model were used in line with the Bayes, SVM,
MLP, and XGBoost algorithms along with the features extracted from all
reviews. AUC refers to the area under the receiver operating charac-
teristic curve and is an intuitive metric with which to evaluate predictive
models (Ling et al., 2003). AUC values range from 0 to 1, with higher
values denoting better accuracy. The AUC remains stable regardless of
the classification threshold; it is insensitive to threshold variations and
enables consistent outcomes (Fawcett, 2006). Furthermore, by evalu-
ating the entire classifier instead of its performance at a specific classi-
fication threshold, AUC can be used to compare models’ efficacy. This
measure is appropriate for assessing prediction performance in various
machine learning applications (Fawcett, 2006). We adopted it to
compare prediction results throughout this section. All other metrics (i.
e., sensitivity, specificity, KL divergence, precision, and F1 score) are
listed in Tables A4–A8 in Appendix B.
Fig. 2 shows that including variance-related variables significantly
improved prediction performance across eight sets of comparative ex-
periments. Upon comparing the base model with the base + var.r model
and the base + avg.s model with the base + avg.s + var.r + var.s model,
we observed improvements in prediction outcomes for all models con-
taining variance. For example, the base + avg.s model using the XGBoost
algorithm achieved an AUC of 96.773%, while the base + avg.s + var.r
+ var.s model attained an AUC of 97.21%. This 0.452% difference is
notable because the baseline model already had outstanding perfor-
mance, thus limiting room for improvement (Du et al., 2019; Lee et al.,
2021). The variance in review ratings and review sentiment can there-
fore enhance models’ capacity for one-year-ahead restaurant survival
prediction. We also found that all algorithms except Bayes (i.e., SVM,
MLP, and XGBoost) demonstrated promising results for one-year-ahead
survival prediction, with AUC values exceeding 90%. The highest AUC,
from XGBoost, was 97.21%.
4.2. Multiple-years-ahead survival prediction
We further predicted restaurants’ survival multiple years ahead.
Fig. 3 displays results for the base model, base + var.r model, base +
avg.s model, and base + avg.s + var.r + var.s model based on the Bayes,
SVM, MLP, and XGBoost algorithms using all reviews. Time frames
spanned from one year ahead to five years ahead; findings are based on
the AUC.
In terms of one-year-ahead survival prediction, XGBoost performed
best among the four algorithms. Its results for our four models gradually
decreased as the prediction timeline extended from one year ahead to
five years ahead. For instance, whereas one-year-ahead predictions
consistently exceeded 96%, they declined to approximately 80% for five
years ahead. This trend indicates our models’ superior performance on
nearer-term data.
Among the four models’ prediction results when using the XGBoost
algorithm for all reviews, the base + avg.s + var.r + var.s model
consistently demonstrated the most accurate predictions for multiple-
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
7 

===== PAGE 8 =====
years-ahead survival. The base + var.r model outperformed the base
model from one year ahead to five years ahead. Additionally, the base +
avg.s + var.r + var.s model regularly achieved superior prediction re-
sults compared with the base + avg.s model. Integrating the variance in
review ratings and review sentiment therefore enhanced multiple-years-
ahead survival prediction. All other algorithms’ results from one years to
five years ahead were like those of XGboost apart from SVM; its results
were similar from one year to four years ahead but returned slightly
different outcomes for five years ahead. Overall, most algorithms’ re-
sults were stable.
4.3. Significance test of prediction results for all reviews
The baseline model has already demonstrated superb predictions.
However, the above experiments revealed noteworthy improvements in
model performance upon including variance-related variables. We
conducted a significance test using paired samples t tests to assess
whether these improvements were statistically significant. Because
some test samples did not meet the approximate normality condition, we
supplemented the t-test with a Wilcoxon signed-rank test as a non-
parametric method, and verified these improvements by the median of
the difference between pairs of results. We initially examined the four
algorithms’ significance and then tested paired samples of prediction
results with and without variance-related variables (i.e., based on the
Fig. 2. Results of one-year-ahead survival prediction.
Fig. 3. Results for multiple-years-ahead survival prediction.
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
8 

===== PAGE 9 =====
four algorithms with AUC as the evaluation metric). Findings are pre-
sented in Table 4.
When comparing models with and without variance-related vari-
ables, most results were statistically significant (p < 0.1, t/Median<0).
Specifically, upon considering all reviews, both the base model and the
base + var.r model for the SVM and XGBoost algorithms were significant
at the 10% level. All other comparisons yielded significant results at the
5% level. Overall, regarding all reviews, significant differences emerged
for the four algorithms when comparing models with and without
variance-related variables. Models containing variance-related variables
demonstrated better performance to a statistically significant degree.
4.4. Survival prediction based on expert reviews and non-expert reviews
Regarding survival predictions between expert and non-expert re-
views, Fig. 4 shows the results for four models using various classifica-
tion algorithms (i.e., one-year-ahead predictions using all reviews,
expert reviews, and non-expert reviews based on the AUC). Excluding
MLP, most results for the other three algorithms involving expert re-
views were more promising than those involving non-expert reviews.
Consequently,
compared
with
non-expert
reviews,
the
variables
extracted from expert reviews could more accurately predict restau-
rants’ one-year-ahead survival status. MLP’s disappointing results for
expert reviews might have arisen because these reviews had less data. In
contrast to other algorithms, MLP features more parameters and re-
quires a relatively larger training dataset. Our relatively small dataset
for expert reviews might not have allowed MLP to fine-tune its param-
eters effectively.
When appraising how variance-related variables affected prediction
results, only the findings for expert reviews based on SVM showed a
slightly lower AUC for the base + var.r model (90.255%) compared with
the base model (90.262%). In summary, whether considering all re-
views, expert reviews, or non-expert reviews, the models containing
variance (based on the Bayes, SVM, MLP, and XGBoost algorithms)
consistently outperformed models without variance. The base + var.r
model possessed a superior predictive capability over the base model;
the same pattern applied to the base + avg.s + var.r + var.s model
compared with the base + avg.s model. The variance in review ratings
and review sentiment thus noticeably improved model predictions.
To further scrutinize how variance-related variables extracted from
expert reviews affected restaurant survival prediction, Fig. 5 provides a
detailed analysis of outcomes for the XGBoost algorithm. This approach
yielded optimal results as evidenced by the AUC for one-year-ahead to
five-year-ahead predictions using four models: base model, base + var.r
model, base + avg.s model, and base + avg.s + var.r + var.s model.
Fig. 5 indicates a gradual decrease in predictive accuracy across all four
models as the prediction horizon extends. With respect to expert
reviews, which hold greater predictive power for restaurants’ survival,
we compared 10 sets (i.e., five sets for the base + var.r model vs. the base
model and five sets for the base + avg.s + var.r + var.s model vs. the
base + avg.s model) spanning from one year ahead to five years ahead.
The base + avg.s + var.r + var.s models consistently had more accurate
predictions than the base + avg.s models. Among the five sets of com-
parisons between the base + var.r and base models, only one set (i.e.,
four-year-ahead survival prediction) showed a slightly lower AUC for
the base + var.r model (83.341%) compared with the base model
(83.443%); all other models including variance-related variables out-
performed their counterparts. Therefore, for expert reviews, integrating
variance-related variables further enhanced the accuracy of restaurant
survival prediction in most cases.
4.5. Significance test of prediction results for expert and non-expert
reviews
In Section 4.4, we predicted restaurants’ survival status using four
models based on variables extracted from expert reviews and non-expert
reviews. We also compared the performance of models with and without
variance-related variables. Models with (vs. without) these variables
predicted one-year-ahead survival between 0.037% and 2.247% more
effectively. We then performed significance tests to verify whether these
improvements were significant, as shown in Table 5. Significance held
for most results based on each of the four algorithms for expert and non-
expert reviews in general. Notable differences emerged for the four
models with and without variance-related variables (p < 0.1, t/
Median<0).
We subsequently compared the survival prediction results for vari-
ables extracted from expert and non-expert reviews. Variables from
expert reviews (vs. non-expert reviews) improved the models’ perfor-
mance by between 0.189% and 1.682% for one-year-ahead survival. To
determine whether the enhancements were statistically significant, we
conducted tests to compare the performance of the four algorithms in
predicting one-year-ahead experiments using expert reviews versus non-
expert reviews and expert reviews versus all reviews. The results indi-
cated expert reviews based on SVM and XGBoost significantly improve
the prediction performance compared to non-expert reviews (p < 0.1, t/
Median>0), and expert reviews based on Bayes and XGBoost signifi-
cantly improve the prediction performance compared to all reviews (p
< 0.1, t/Median>0).
4.6. Survival prediction during the COVID-19
Fig. 6 presents the one-year-ahead prediction results during the
COVID-19 using AUC metric (for prediction results using other metrics,
see Appendix B, Table A9). It was found that both one-year-ahead
Table 4
Significance test of prediction results for all reviews.
No.
Paired differences
Mean
Median
SD
SEM
t
Wilcoxon
p-value
1
Bayes base vs. Bayes base + var.r
−0.007
−0.006
0.006
0.002
−4.697
–
0.000
2
Bayes base + avg.s vs. Bayes base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
−0.010
−0.010
0.009
0.002
−4.354
–
0.001
3
SVM base vs. SVM base + var.r
0.005
−0.001
0.025
0.006
–
−1.761
0.078
4
SVM base + avg.s vs. SVM base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
−0.001
−0.002
0.002
0.001
−2.618
–
0.020
5
XGBoost base vs. XGBoost base + var.r
−0.003
−0.001
0.005
0.001
−1.862
–
0.084
6
XGBoost base + avg.s vs. XGBoost base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
−0.007
−0.008
0.005
0.001
−5.591
–
0.000
7
MLP base vs. MLP base + var.r
−0.007
−0.005
0.008
0.002
–
−3.294
0.001
8
MLP base + avg.s vs. MLP base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
−0.009
−0.005
0.009
0.002
−4.141
–
0.001
9
Base vs. Base + var.r
−0.003
−0.003
0.014
0.002
–
−5.160
0.000
10
Base + avg.s vs. Base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
−0.007
−0.004
0.007
0.001
–
−6.022
0.000
Notes: Lines 1 and 2 represent significance tests for comparative predictions (i.e., base vs. base + var.r and base + avg.s vs. base + avg.s + var.r + var.s) in terms of the
AUC based on the Bayes algorithm from one year to five years ahead using variables from all reviews. Each group for the significance test contained 15 pairs of
comparative prediction results: five pairs for one year ahead, four pairs for two years ahead, three pairs for three years ahead, two pairs for four years ahead, and one
pair for five years ahead. Rows 3–8 present comparative results based on four algorithms. Rows 9 and 10 indicate the significance of comparative predictions based on
the four algorithms from one year to five years ahead with 60 pairs of comparative prediction results.
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
9 

===== PAGE 10 =====
prediction before and during COVID-19 showed similar results. Specif-
ically, the prediction results based on SVM, MLP, and XGBoost exhibited
superiority, with AUC values exceeding 95%, and the inclusion of
variance variable (i.e., review rating variance and review sentiment
variance) enhanced the restaurant survival prediction performance
during the COVID-19.
In Fig. 7, we compared the prediction results of base model, base +
var.r model, base + avg.s model, and base + avg.s + var.r + var.s model
in one-year-ahead and two-years-ahead prediction over all reviews
using AUC metric (for prediction results using other metrics, see Ap-
pendix B, Table A10). It was found that, among four prediction models
using all reviews, the majority of the results given by base + avg.s + var.
r + var.s model were best in one-year-ahead and two-years-ahead
predictions. In addition, the majority of the results given by the
models that consider review rating variance and review sentiment
variance showed significant improvement in one-year-ahead and two-
years-ahead prediction, when comparing to models without consid-
ering those variances. Furthermore, similar to the results before the
COVID-19, the models’ prediction performance was better in one-year-
ahead experiment than in two-years-ahead experiment.
As similar to the results before the COVID-19, we also segmented the
Elite and non-Elite dataset to study the impact of reviews from Elite
users, non-Elite users, and all users on restaurant survival prediction
during the COVID-19. The results of the AUC metric for the expert and
non-expert reviews are shown in Table 6, which provides several
intriguing findings. First, it was verified that the survival prediction
results of the model with variance were better than that without vari-
ance in both datasets. Second, the prediction performance of one-year-
ahead was generally better than that of two-years-ahead. Third, an
analysis comparing survival prediction results derived from experts and
non-experts reviews revealed that the source of online reviews –
whether from Elite or from non-Elite users – did not remarkably influ-
ence the performance of models, despite a slight improvement in the
two-years-ahead prediction results drawn from the experts reviews as
opposed to the non-experts reviews. Interestingly, the prediction per-
formance based on all reviews was better than that solely based on the
expert reviews. One plausible explanation could be that, during the
pandemic where uncertainty prevails, consumers may engage in more
thorough and comprehensive evaluations before decision-making than
they would in normal times. Therefore, in such a content, both expert
and non-expert reviews are likely to be considered, leading to incon-
sistent yet interesting results meriting further study.
Fig. 4. One-year-ahead prediction results for expert and non-expert reviews.
Fig. 5. Multiple-years-ahead survival prediction results for four models based
on XGBoost using expert reviews.
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
10 

===== PAGE 11 =====
A significance test was conducted, with the outcomes presented in
Table 7. It was found that there was no significant difference in pre-
diction performance between expert and non-expert reviews (p > 0.1).
However, a notable disparity was identified between the performance of
models using all reviews and those using expert reviews, with the former
showing superior results (p < 0.1, Median<0). Moreover, a significant
difference was observed between the prediction results of the model
incorporating variance variable and the model without them, indicating
that the inclusion of variance variables significantly enhanced model
performance (p < 0.1, t/Median<0).
4.7. Comparative analysis before and during the COVID-19
To further explore the influence of review variance and source on
survival, we conducted a comparative analysis, examining the periods
both before and during the COVID-19 pandemic. Specifically, we
employed four algorithms and their corresponding AUC metrics for one-
year-ahead predictions. Across various review sources (all reviews,
Table 5
Significance test of prediction results for expert and non-expert reviews.
Paired differences
Mean
Median
SD
SEM
t
Wilcoxon
p-value
Expert reviews
Bayes base vs. Bayes base + var.r
−0.002
−0.001
0.003
0.001
−2.713
–
0.017
Bayes base + avg.s vs. Bayes base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
−0.011
−0.011
0.011
0.003
−3.782
–
0.002
SVM base vs. SVM base + var.r
−0.002
−0.001
0.002
0.001
−2.720
–
0.017
SVM base + avg.s vs. SVM base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
−0.001
−0.001
0.002
0.000
−3.119
–
0.008
XGBoost base vs. XGBoost base + var.r
−0.003
−0.003
0.004
0.001
−2.591
–
0.021
XGBoost base + avg.s vs. XGBoost base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
−0.007
−0.008
0.004
0.001
−6.059
–
0.000
MLP base vs. MLP base + var.r
−0.009
−0.007
0.013
0.003
–
−2.499
0.012
MLP base + avg.s vs. MLP base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
−0.018
−0.016
0.010
0.003
−6.620
–
0.000
Base vs. Base + var.r
−0.004
−0.003
0.007
0.001
–
−4.741
0.000
Base + avg.s vs. base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
−0.009
−0.007
0.010
0.001
–
−6.144
0.000
Non-expert reviews
Bayes base vs. Bayes base + var.r
−0.007
−0.005
0.006
0.001
−4.712
–
0.000
Bayes base + avg.s vs. Bayes base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
−0.010
−0.008
0.009
0.002
−4.184
–
0.001
SVM base vs. SVM base + var.r
−0.004
−0.004
0.002
0.000
−7.586
–
0.000
SVM base + avg.s vs. SVM base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
−0.003
−0.003
0.002
0.000
–
−3.351
0.001
XGBoost base vs. XGBoost base + var.r
−0.002
−0.002
0.001
0.000
−5.257
–
0.000
XGBoost base + avg.s vs. XGBoost base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
−0.009
−0.008
0.005
0.001
−6.957
–
0.000
MLP base vs. MLP base + var.r
−0.010
−0.010
0.009
0.002
−3.996
–
0.001
MLP base + avg.s vs. MLP base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
−0.014
−0.014
0.010
0.003
−5.192
–
0.000
Base vs. Base + var.r
−0.006
−0.004
0.006
0.001
–
−5.872
0.000
Base + avg.s vs. base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
−0.009
−0.007
0.008
0.001
–
−6.338
0.000
Comprehensive comparison
Expert Bayes vs. All Bayes
0.008
0.005
0.016
0.004
–
−1.867
0.062
Expert Bayes vs. non-expert Bayes
0.004
−0.003
0.024
0.005
–
−0.224
0.823
Expert SVM vs. All SVM
−0.009
−0.012
0.007
0.002
–
−3.547
0.000
Expert SVM vs. non-expert SVM
0.007
0.008
0.008
0.002
3.930
–
0.001
Expert MLP vs. All MLP
−0.009
−0.012
0.011
0.002
−3.629
–
0.002
Expert MLP vs. non-expert MLP
−0.005
−0.004
0.008
0.002
−2.940
–
0.008
Expert XGBoost vs. All XGBoost
0.002
0.001
0.003
0.001
2.353
–
0.030
Expert XGBoost vs. non-expert XGBoost
0.002
0.002
0.003
0.001
–
−2.576
0.010
Notes: Significance test results for expert reviews and non-expert reviews were similar to those for all reviews. Our comprehensive comparison involved significance
tests for expert reviews versus non-expert reviews and for expert reviews versus all reviews of the four algorithms (including all AUC results of the four models for one
year ahead).
Fig. 6. Results of one-year-ahead survival prediction during the COVID-19.
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
11 

===== PAGE 12 =====
expert reviews and non-expert reviews), we calculated the average
improvement percentage in survival prediction performance for models
with and without variance variables. The improvement is calculated as
improvement = AUC(model with var)−AUC(model without var)
AUC(model without var)
× 100%. The re-
sults are shown in Fig. 8.
Firstly, for all reviews, the results based on all four algorithms
(excluding XGBoost) reveal that the variance during the COVID-19 ex-
erts more pronounced effects on the prediction model enhancement
compared to the variance before the COVID-19. Secondly, the influence
of variance on survival before and during the COVID-19 varies signifi-
cantly based on the review source. Specifically, during the pandemic,
the effect of variance from expert reviews on the model performance
shows further improvement in all four algorithms compared to their pre-
pandemic performance. Nevertheless, for non-expert reviews, the im-
provements stemming from variance during the pandemic are pro-
nounced in the Bayes and SVM algorithms, whereas before the
pandemic, the MLP and XGBoost algorithms demonstrate stronger en-
hancements attributable to variance.
4.8. Kaplan-Meier curves
This paper employs Kaplan-Meier (KM) curves to analyze the impact
of specific variables on restaurant survival. Specifically, the KM curves
describes the proportion of restaurants that survive over time given an
influencing factor. The X-axis denotes restaurant’s survival time (in
months), defined as the duration from the initial observation to the
restaurant’s closure, while the Y-axis represents the survival rate – that
is, the probability that a restaurant will survive at a given observation
time. As such, this approach facilitates a comparative analysis of the
impact of high versus low values of a particular feature on restaurant
survival.
Fig. 9(a) and (b) display the KM curves of cumulative, current
average, and variance of the review rating and five aspect-based senti-
ment for five-years-ahead predictions before the COVID-19 (from 2015
to 2019) and two-years-ahead during the COVID-19 (from 2020 to
2021). The blue line indicates restaurants with values of this variable
below the median and the orange line represents restaurants with values
of this variable above the median. The closer two lines are to each other,
the smaller the difference in the impact of the high versus low variable
on restaurant survival; conversely, the wider separation between the
two lines, the more pronounced the impact of the high versus low var-
iable on restaurant survival.
The following findings can be reached from the two figures. First, as
can be seen in row 2 in Fig. 9(a) and (b), the cumulative variance was
similar before and during the Covid-19. Regarding the review rating and
tastiness sentiment score, restaurants had higher probability of survival
when the cumulative variance was lower. However, the cumulative
variance of service, atmosphere, and location sentiment score did not
have apparent impact on restaurant survival. In addition, regarding the
price sentiment score, while restaurants exhibited a higher probability
of survival before the pandemic when its cumulative variance was
lower, the cumulative variance had little impact on restaurant survival
during the pandemic. In addition, a comparison of row 4 in Fig. 9(a) and
(b) revealed that, generally, the current variance in review ratings and in
five aspect-based sentiment scores exerted a negligible impact on
restaurant
survival
before
the
pandemic.
However,
during
the
pandemic, restaurants exhibited a higher chance of survival when the
current variance of review ratings and five aspect-based sentiment score
was lower. Such results indicated that recent review ratings and senti-
ment scores during the pandemic became more important compared to
before the pandemic. Furthermore, as can be seen from row 1 and row 3
in Fig. 9(a) and (b), restaurants had higher chance of survival when the
majority of both cumulative and average scores was higher, that is,
higher scores in review ratings and five aspect-based sentiments led to
higher chance of restaurant survival.
4.9. Feature importance
To explore the importance of extracted features for restaurant sur-
vival prediction, we used the feature importance method to analyze the
impacts of all variables from all reviews based on the base + avg.s + var.
r + var.s model before the COVID-19. We used the average coverage of a
feature over the sample to represent the importance of the feature; the
Fig. 7. Results of Multiple-years-ahead survival prediction during the COVID-19.
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
12 

===== PAGE 13 =====
better the coverage capability, the more important the feature is for
prediction (Yang et al., 2020). We predicted survival in 2015 using re-
views from 2004 to 2014 as an example. All variables were separated
into groups: variables in the base model (i.e., base variables), average
senti. variables, and variance-related variables. XGBoost performed best
among all algorithms. We consequently used feature importance from
the XGBoost algorithm for sorting; results are pictured in Fig. 10.
Furthermore, we also used the feature importance method from the
XGBoost algorithm to analyze the impacts of all variables from all re-
views based on the base + avg.s + var.r + var.s model during the
COVID-19, see Appendix E for details.
Chain business, price, and business age were the most important
among base variables and all variables, echoing earlier work on res-
taurants’ survival (Zhang & Luo, 2023). Avg. review volume (cum.) and
avg. rating (cum.) each ranked highly in terms of importance (i.e., fourth
and fifth, respectively). These outcomes are unsurprising, as many
consumers prefer to dine at restaurants that have many reviews and
positive ratings; thus, the number of cumulative reviews and review
ratings are important for restaurants’ survival.
Second, among the average variables, avg. price senti. (cum.) was
most pertinent. The feature importance of avg. atmosphere senti. (cum.),
avg. tastiness senti. (cum.), and avg. general senti. (cum.) was also
higher and possessed greater predictive power regarding future survival.
Most of the salient variables in this group (i.e., average variables) were
cumulative, likely because the cumulative sentiment average variable
was more representative of overall restaurant sentiment.
Third, the variance was more important than the average, except for
avg. price senti. (cum.). Variance-related variables thus appeared to
affect restaurant survival prediction more profoundly than average
variables. This finding reinforces our prior conclusion that most models
including variance outperformed those without variance. Among
variance-related variables, var. price senti. (cum.) was the most influ-
ential. Those concerning price sentiment were also informative (i.e., var.
price senti. [cum.], var. price senti. [one-period], and var. price senti.
[change]). This finding mirrors previous literature highlighting price as
crucial in consumers’ restaurant choices (Chua et al., 2020). Review
rating variance was useful in predicting restaurants’ survival as well.
Var. location senti. (one-period), var. atmosphere senti. (cum.), and var.
service senti. (cum.) were also prominent within this feature category as
shown by their rankings.
5. Conclusion and discussion
Timely and accurate business survival prediction is vital in today’s
dynamic business environment. We gathered online review data for
2838 restaurants in Boston to forecast businesses’ survival. By employ-
ing advanced machine learning–based algorithms, we investigated the
roles of variance and review sources in restaurant survival prediction.
Several revelations were identified.
First, online review variance was a leading indicator of business
survival prediction. Online reviews are multifaceted. Closely examining
specific aspects can untangle these reviews’ complexity and underline
their power for forecasting businesses’ survival (e.g., in terms of review
variance). Specifically, it was found that three types of variance (i.e.,
review rating variance, overall review sentiment variance, and aspect-
based review sentiment variance) can greatly influence restaurant sur-
vival prediction. Regarding review rating variance, it vividly reflects the
heterogeneity of customers’ consumption utility of the product, as high
ratings usually communicate the high quality of the product and
Table 6
AUC metric results for expert and non-expert reviews.
Algorithm
Model
Expert
reviews
one-year-
ahead
Non-expert
reviews one-
year-ahead
Expert
reviews
Two-
years-
ahead
Non-
expert
reviews
Two-
years-
ahead
Bayes
Base
63.16%
64.31%
57.48%
56.38%
base +
var.r
66.87%
69.06%
63.79%
62.17%
base +
avg.s
67.57%
68.69%
61.26%
61.82%
base +
avg.s +
var.r +
var.s
68.65%
69.64%
64.85%
64.37%
SVM
base
89.74%
92.22%
86.60%
84.21%
base +
var.r
90.21%
92.69%
86.73%
84.91%
base +
avg.s
89.85%
92.33%
86.57%
83.90%
base +
avg.s +
var.r +
var.s
90.32%
92.76%
87.02%
84.91%
MLP
base
90.66%
96.05%
89.52%
89.37%
base +
var.r
91.37%
96.63%
91.23%
92.42%
base +
avg.s
91.48%
96.40%
91.56%
90.79%
base +
avg.s +
var.r +
var.s
92.83%
96.70%
93.21%
92.36%
XGBoost
base
97.74%
98.05%
95.60%
95.19%
base +
var.r
98.23%
98.21%
96.15%
95.72%
base +
avg.s
98.30%
98.37%
96.08%
95.79%
base +
avg.s +
var.r +
var.s
98.41%
98.47%
96.64%
96.48%
Table 7
Significance test of prediction results during the COVID-19.
Paired differences
Mean
Median
SD
SEM
t
Wilcoxon
p value
All reviews
Base vs. Base + var.r
−0.012
−0.007
0.016
0.005
–
−2.275
0.023
Base + avg.s vs. base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
−0.007
−0.004
0.006
0.002
−3.578
–
0.004
Expert reviews
Base vs. Base + var.r
−0.016
−0.007
0.022
0.006
–
−3.059
0.002
Base + avg.s vs. base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
−0.010
−0.006
0.010
0.003
–
−3.059
0.002
Non-expert reviews
Base vs. Base + var.r
−0.018
−0.008
0.022
0.006
–
−2.824
0.005
Base + avg.s vs. base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
−0.008
−0.005
0.010
0.003
−2.777
–
0.018
Comprehensive comparison
Expert vs. all
−0.023
−0.011
0.033
0.005
–
−4.000
0.000
Expert vs. non-expert
−0.012
−0.001
0.032
0.005
–
−1.497
0.134
Notes: Significance tests for all, expert, and non-expert reviews were similar to those conducted for pre-pandemic times. The test was based on four algorithms from
one-year-ahead to two-years-ahead with 12 pairs of comparative prediction results. Comprehensive comparison involved significance tests for expert reviews versus
non-expert reviews and for expert reviews versus all reviews (including all AUC results of the four models and four algorithms for one-year-ahead and two-years-ahead
prediction).
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
13 

===== PAGE 14 =====
potentially signal high perceived demand (Sun, 2012), which is central
to business survival. In terms of overall sentiment variance, it reflects the
heterogeneity of overall customer valence (i.e., positive, negative, and
neutral) towards the product, providing an overview of customers’
satisfaction which is crucial to business survival (Li et al., 2023). More
interestingly, for aspect-based sentiment variance, while it similarly
reflects the heterogeneity of customer valence, it does provide a more
nuanced and multifarious insights on customer’s satisfaction about
different aspects of products (e.g., the food and the service of certain
restaurant) (Li et al., 2023). Such fine-grained sentiment variance helps
practitioners take more concrete actions effectively targeting at certain
aspects.
Our findings align with studies indicating the centrality of review
variance in domains such as product sales (Sun, 2012) and customers’
willingness to pay (Wu et al., 2013). In addition, different from work
focusing on review rating variance, we addressed overall review senti-
ment variance and fine-grained review sentiment variance to offer
granular insights. Results demonstrate the promise of review variance
and extend its applicability to business survival prediction. Notably, the
findings also indicate that during the pandemic, review variance exerts a
more pronounced effect on survival prediction in most cases compared
to its impact before the pandemic. Moreover, given the importance of
revealing underlying mechanisms in management research, we provide
insights to make the study’s findings more inspiring. Specifically, it is
inferred that restaurant ratings and customer intentions might mediate
the impact of review variance on restaurant survival. On the one hand,
research suggests that review variance exerts negative effect on
restaurant ratings (Li et al., 2020), as high review variance increases
product uncertainty, making customers less confident in their evalua-
tions (Petrocelli et al., 2007). Consequently, lower ratings may
adversely influence restaurant demand and eventually make the busi-
ness harder to survive (Kim et al., 2016). On the other hand, previous
study indicates that rating variance plays a crucial role in influencing
diners’ visit intentions to restaurants, with lower variance attracting
more customers due to reduced perceived risk (Lu et al., 2020).
Following this logic, the underlying mechanism of revealed impact in
this study could be that restaurants with lower (higher) review variance
tend to have higher (lower) chance of survival due to higher (lower)
restaurant ratings or increased (decreased) customer flows.
Second, we have confirmed the value of review sources as docu-
mented elsewhere (Li et al., 2017; Lo & Yao, 2019; Wu et al., 2021;
Zhang et al., 2016) and expanded its potential. Previous research mainly
covered review sources in relation to consumers’ evaluations (Baek
et al., 2012; Liu & Park, 2015). We unearthed the importance of these
sources in predicting businesses’ survival. Additionally, we found that
during the pandemic, the variance in expert reviews shows a greater
impact on survival prediction compared to its impact before the
pandemic. Online reviews from specific sources (e.g., experts) some-
times comprise more reliable and higher-quality information than re-
views from other sources. Stakeholders can therefore exploit these
premium data sources for various purposes.
Third, the KM curves provide a more nuanced understanding of how
review variance affects restaurant survival across both pre-pandemic
and pandemic periods. Specifically, before the pandemic, long-term
variances in restaurant ratings, tastiness, and price sentiment gain
greater importance. And restaurants with higher scores but lower vari-
ance in these aspects are more likely to survive. However, during the
pandemic, while restaurants with higher scores but lower variance in the
above aspects still survive better, recent (short-term) fluctuations of
restaurant’s ratings and respective sentiment on price, tastiness, and
service start to gain increasing significance. These intriguing findings
not only echo to the growing importance of services, such as low-risk
services that ensure safety, during the pandemic (Bove & Benoit,
2020) but also in line with the emerging pattern of the significance of
short-term changes and adaptions over long-term trends during the
crisis (Deloitte, 2020; McKinsey Global Institute, 2021).
Last, by using feature importance algorithm, we identified chain
business, price, and age as the most pertinent factors influencing res-
taurants’ survival. Restaurants that have higher prices, are chains, or
belong to time-honored brands generally survive longer due to their
stronger investment abilities, more robust resilience, and better resource
access (e.g., managerial talent). Scholars have previously come to
similar conclusions (Parsa et al., 2011, 2015; Zhang & Luo, 2023). We
also determined that variance-related variables about price contribute to
restaurant survival prediction. Indeed, cost is an essential consideration
when diners choose a restaurant (Chua et al., 2020). The variance in
restaurant ratings, locations, and services are also integral to predicting
businesses’ survival, further corroborating their importance docu-
mented in other research (Naumzik et al., 2022).
5.1. Theoretical implications
This study contributes to the literature in several ways. First, it
bolsters research on business survival using internet big data (i.e., online
review data). To our best knowledge, this study is among one of the first
examining the role of online review variance in business survival pre-
diction. While previous studies mainly focused on the use of review
ratings and valence in predicting business survival, we identified a new
leading indicator (i.e., review variance) in this important field. Through
the lens of accessibility-diagnosticity theory, we demonstrated the po-
tential of online review variance in predicting business survival. Spe-
cifically, online review variance is likely to serve as an informational
Fig. 8. Comparative analysis for restaurant prediction before and during the
COVID-19.
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
14 

===== PAGE 15 =====
signal or cue regarding the quality of products/services provided by
businesses. Such variance is instrumental in shaping consumers’ per-
ceptions and influencing their decision uncertainty (e.g., high variance
may increase the degree of decision uncertainty), which in turn can
influence their decision behaviors. For instance, in tourism and hospi-
tality context, consumer may decide whether to patronize a restaurant
based on various opinions expressed in online reviews. Consequently,
these behaviors are anticipated to influence product demand, thereby
ultimately influencing business survival. In addition, by recognizing
review variance as a significant facet of online reviews, this study
further underscores the value of online review data in business survival
research. This type of data is simple to access, fairly vast, and
information-rich, thus enabling effective business survival prediction
and warranting continuous use in future studies.
Second, our research enriches the eWoM literature, particularly in
terms of online reviews. Regarding review characteristics, scholars have
acknowledged the role of review rating variance in product sales (Sun,
2012). We took another step in this direction by exploring overall review
sentiment variance and fine-grained review sentiment variance. All
three types of variance seem important for restaurant survival predic-
tion, unveiling key aspects that may promote restaurants’ survival.
Compared with studying review variance from a single perspective (e.g.,
rating variance), we considered multiple angles (e.g., rating variance,
overall sentiment variance, and fine-grained sentiment variance) to
Fig. 9. KM curves. (a) before the COVID-19 and (b) during the COVID-19.
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
15 

===== PAGE 16 =====
foster more fruitful outcomes. As for online review sources, based on
source credibility theory and signaling theory, our study verifies the
power of expert reviews (Li et al., 2017). These reviews have typically
been explored with respect to consumer decision making and review
helpfulness or credibility (Baek et al., 2012). We demonstrated their
roles in restaurant survival prediction. By treating expert status as a
signal and expert reviews as more trustworthy content, consumers are
likely to form better product perceptions and make informed choices
based on the information obtained from expert reviews. Consequently,
these decisions can influence product demand (i.e., restaurant business
volume), which eventually can affect restaurant survival. Our work
amplifies the value of identity-descriptive information (i.e., expert sta-
tus) in online reviews (Li et al., 2017) and underscores review sources’
potential in a new domain (i.e., business survival prediction). This study
is one of the first to assess these reviews’ profundity in a hospitality and
tourism context. Follow-up research can produce additional insights.
Finally, we have fortified business survival prediction using inter-
pretable machine learning. Unlike studies that merely reported greater
predictive accuracy without identifying associated causes, we described
the factors underlying restaurants’ survival. Our use of a feature
importance algorithm revealed influential aspects of survival prediction.
In addition, compared with research that processed information from
surveys or internal databases (Chhatwani et al., 2022; Parsa et al., 2011)
via conventional quantitative approaches (e.g., proportional hazard
regression), we implemented a flexible yet powerful machine learning
method that can generate more reliable, interpretable outcomes. Later
studies could extend this approach to predict survival in other tourism
and hospitality settings (e.g., hotels).
5.2. Practical implications
Our study also contributes to industry practice in various ways. First,
business owners should pay attention to review variance. We have
provided an additional tool with which to evaluate businesses’ survival.
For instance, restaurant managers should be mindful of product and
service delivery; it is important to minimize possible inconsistencies
when observing a high degree of review variance. Managers should
instead adjust their offerings to suit market expectations. Short-term
variance shall also be paid attention as consumers start keeping eyes
on more recent changes. In addition, review variance can help
Fig. 10. Results of feature importance analysis.
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
16 

===== PAGE 17 =====
businesses identify customers to whom the restaurant’s products and
services may appeal. Managers can then engage in targeted marketing to
tap into this market (e.g., specializing in unique or little-known cui-
sines). While implementing such practices may seem challenging due to
potential concern regarding the feasibility of quantifying review vari-
ance through managerial capabilities, the flourishing digital trans-
formation across industries can in fact facilitate this process, even for
financially constraint businesses. For instance, restaurant managers who
lack competent data skills or face financial constraints can utilize
existing software with open-source tools, which are free and handy, to
gain insights into review variance. Additionally, leveraging the potential
of generative AI, such as ChatGPT, to assist managers with review
variance calculation by providing relevant prompts can be beneficial
without incurring extra costs.
Second, apart from paying attention to overall review sentiment
variance, business owners are also suggested to gain insights from
aspect-based review sentiment variance. Specifically, we identified
several aspects, such as price sentiment and service sentiment variance,
that can prompt business development. Such a finding provides insights
to practitioners at both micro and macro level. At micro level, for
instance, restaurateurs should carefully evaluate customers’ attitudes
towards current price levels to see whether costs meet diners’ expecta-
tions. At macro level, it highlights the importance of and raises man-
agers attention to different aspects of their business, instead of merely
paying attention to the overall picture. On this basis, more concrete
actions could be taken to make targeted improvement and eventually
benefit the entire business. Expert reviews are similarly helpful for
predicting restaurants’ survival. Practitioners should encourage diners
with expert status to write reviews after visiting a restaurant.
Third, by leveraging our prediction model, investors can check the
consistency of customers’ attitudes towards certain restaurants to clarify
businesses’ status and potential. Investors can then pursue opportunities
with a higher presumed return on investment. In times of uncertainty,
when investors become especially prudent about their decisions, our
study should enable more confident strategic planning.
Lastly, operators of online review platforms such as Yelp and Tri-
pAdvisor can refer to our work to understand how variance and online
review sources contribute to business survival prediction. Platform op-
erators could introduce functions that display restaurants’ review vari-
ance to indicate restaurants’ business status. Expert reviewers could also
be incentivized to post high-quality reviews. Operators can incorporate
our findings into annual business reports to enhance stakeholders’ sense
of business prospects based on information derived from review vari-
ance and sources.
6. Limitations and future research
A few limitations of this study need to be acknowledged. First, when
considering aspects that might affect businesses’ survival, we did not
account for variables other than review variance and sources (e.g.,
restaurants’ marketing practices and financial status). Researchers
should integrate additional factors as relevant data become available. At
more macro level, the negligence of issues like regional blockade pol-
icies and government support polices during the pandemic should be
noted as a limitation and examined in future research. Second, we only
examined online review text; we ignored visual elements (e.g., review
photos), although they may provide additional information about res-
taurants’ survival. Many customers supplement their reviews with pic-
tures. Finally, we gathered all review data from Yelp and focused on
restaurants in Boston. Finding may not generalize to other geographic
areas. Scholars should investigate restaurants in other places and extend
our method to different hospitality products (e.g., hotels).
Impact statement
This study provides practitioners in the restaurant industry with
novel insights on business survival by tapping into online review vari-
ance and expert reviews. In times of uncertainty and turbulence, the
practical value of this study is remarkable and can be summarized as
follows. First, restaurant managers should pay sufficient attention to the
different types of online review variance (i.e., review rating variance,
overall review sentiment variance, and fine-grained review sentiment
variance), as it provides nuanced understanding about customers’ atti-
tudes and preferences toward the products and services offered, which
play a central role in business survival. Second, restaurant managers
should incentivize expert reviewers to write post-consumption reviews,
which tend to contain high-quality information relevant to business
survival. Finally, online review platform operators may gain some
inspiration from this study and consider integrating these important
review features into the platform design to better reflect business status
and potential.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Hengyun Li: Writing – review & editing, Validation, Resources,
Project administration, Funding acquisition, Conceptualization. Anqi
Zhou: Writing – original draft, Visualization, Software, Methodology,
Investigation, Data curation. Xiang (Kevin) Zheng: Writing – review &
editing, Writing – original draft, Validation, Investigation, Formal
analysis, Conceptualization. Jian Xu: Validation, Supervision, Re-
sources, Methodology, Data curation, Conceptualization. Jing Zhang:
Writing – review & editing, Visualization, Supervision, Software,
Methodology, Investigation, Data curation.
Acknowledgments
The authors acknowledge the support of research funds from the
National
Natural
Science
Foundation
of
China
(No.
72474189;
71901053) and the Hong Kong Polytechnic University SHTM Interdis-
ciplinary Large Grant (No. 4-ZZNQ).
Appendix A. Labeling of restaurants’ exit times
Information about annotators
There were eight annotators for this study with four males and four females, and all of them were research assistants for this project. Among them,
there were six postgraduate and two undergraduate students. The selection criteria for the annotators include proficient in English, and having an
educational background in business and data analytics. Each person was responsible for labeling the exit time for nearly 300 restaurants, requiring full
examination of around 5000 reviews per person, which included reviews containing specific keywords and the last five reviews of each restaurant.
Throughout the annotation process, we did not require the annotators to annotate centrally, and the annotators were free to schedule their own
annotation time, and all of them did not confer with each other.
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
17 

===== PAGE 18 =====
Keywords and priority
Several keywords could relate to closure (e.g., “out of business,” “shut down,” and “close”). We prioritized more explicit terms as follows based on
the extent to which they indicated an exit: out_of_business = shut_down > go_under = shutter = bankrupt > close. In this case, “out_of_business” and
“shut_down” most directly conveyed a business exit. Although “go_under,” “shutter,” and “bankrupt” partly indicate discontinuation, these terms may be
irrelevant to business status. For example, “bankrupt” can metaphorically denote a restaurant’s expensive nature in that eating there makes diners feel
bankrupt. “close” can reflect a temporary or permanent closure; it can also show that a restaurant is geographically near other places. Prioritizing
relevant keywords enabled better prediction.
Two stages for discerning restaurant exit time
Stage 1: During training, first, annotators learned about the task and labeling rules. Second, 1% of restaurants and their reviews (i.e., 11 restaurants
and 1398 reviews) were randomly chosen from the full dataset; the trained annotators labeled each independently. Then, the annotators were re-
trained to address inconsistencies in the first-round labeling results before an additional 1% of restaurants and their reviews were selected and labeled
independently. Cohen’s (1960) Kappa coefficient indicated that the labeling consistency reached 0.96, up to the standard of perfect consistency
(Landis & Koch, 1977). Annotators’ highly aligned results could thus be applied in subsequent experiments. The training stage began on August 9,
2022 and finished on August 16, 2022.
Stage 2: All eight annotators worked on the final labeling stage after training. The remaining 98% of data was evenly separated into four groups,
and the annotators were divided into two groups of four people; that is, each annotator labeled one piece of data simultaneously. Consistent results
were retained, while inconsistent results were transferred to other groups for further labeling until consistency was reached. The final labeling stage
began on August 16, 2022 and finished on September 11, 2022.
Columns to be annotated
All reviews containing specific keywords (out_of_business = shut_down > go_under = shutter = bankrupt > close) and the last five reviews for each
restaurant were included. Reviews without these keywords, as well as reviews containing the keywords “open” and “stop,” could be selected based on
the context provided by the preceding and succeeding reviews (i.e., above and below a target review).
(i) Closure indication: This column shows whether a review suggested the restaurant had gone out of business. If so, the label “Y” was assigned;
otherwise, the review was labeled “N.”
(ii) Renovation indication: This column shows whether a review suggested the restaurant was open for renovation. If so, the label “Y” was assigned;
otherwise, the review was labeled “N.”
(iii) Date: This column shows the time of closure as indicated by a review.
(iv) Closure time: This column shows the exact date of closure for a restaurant by considering all information (each restaurant was marked based on
the first piece of data).
Labeling rules
We chose restaurants marked as closed and then selected a review to determine the time of closure based on the circumstances outlined below. A
true restaurant closure was differentiated from misleading comments (e.g., a diner was angry about their experience and stated they wished the
restaurant were closed).
(i) If a review indicated a specific closure time (e.g., today, this week) and the restaurant was truly closed, the date cited in the review was
considered the closure time. We calculated closure dates during the labeling process based on expressions such as “a week ago,” “a month ago,”
or “before the New Year.” For example, if a review mentioned a closure a week ago, we subtracted seven days from the review date to determine
the date of closure. If a review mentioned a closure before the New Year, we considered December 31st as the closure date.
(ii) If keywords indicating closure appeared but referred to either a temporary closure for refurbishment, and subsequent reviews indicated a
reopening or ongoing business (with reviews from more than three months later), we verified the closure time after reopening.
(iii) If a review contained a keyword indicating closure but the mentioned time was vague (e.g., “recently,” “will be”) or not specified, we took the
date of the earliest review mentioning a closure as the closing time. In this case, if reviews noted the restaurant’s intention to close or stated that
customers had heard about an impending closure and a later review indicated the restaurant’s closure, we used the closure time mentioned in
the latter review. For reviews mentioning the restaurant’s intention to close or stating that customers had heard about an impending closure, if
no subsequent review mentioned a closure, we referred to the reviews that followed to determine credibility. If news of a closure was deemed
reliable, we labeled the review as indicating closure (“Y”; reviews were labeled “N” otherwise).
(iv) If a review mentions that restaurant A has changed its name or location, we need to verify if there is another entry for the changed restaurant B
in the dataset, based on the new name or address. If the ID for restaurant B does exist and its opening time aligns with the posting time of that
review, then we can conclude that restaurant A is now closed. In this case, the time mentioned in the review will be considered as the closing
time for restaurant A.
(v) If no keyword indicated closure, we took the date of the last review as the closure time. However, if the last review mentioned that the writer
had visited the restaurant years ago, that review was discarded; the next review was instead used to determine the closure time.
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
18 

===== PAGE 19 =====
Appendix B. Supplementary tables
Table A1
Descriptive statistics of variables
Count
Mean
Std
Min
Max
State of survival
2838
0.581
0.493
0
1
Price
2838
1.734
0.700
1
4
Chain business
2838
0.058
0.233
0
1
Business age
2838
8.818
4.926
1
18
No. of competitors
2838
101.742
50.101
0
214
Amount of engagement
2838
33.371
52.997
0
1435
Length of review
2838
114.025
31.890
37.333
283.540
Review volume
2838
20.151
27.391
0.385
442.471
Rating
528592
3.696
1.328
1.000
5.000
Location senti.
528592
0.455
0.263
0.001
0.999
Tastiness senti.
528592
0.547
0.332
0.001
0.999
Service senti.
528592
0.476
0.342
0.001
0.999
Price senti.
528592
0.451
0.330
0.001
0.999
Atmosphere senti.
528592
0.458
0.319
0.000
0.999
General senti.
528592
0.477
0.299
0.002
0.999
Table A2
Descriptive statistics of all variables for restaurants that survived in 2014
Count
Mean
Std
Min
25%
50%
75%
Max
State of survival
1537
0.93
0.25
0.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Price
1537
1.71
0.72
1.00
1.00
2.00
2.00
4.00
Chain business
1537
0.08
0.27
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1.00
Business age
1537
6.52
3.07
1.00
4.00
7.00
9.00
11.00
Avg. No. of competitors(one-period)
1537
111.64
50.53
0.00
96.00
109.00
129.00
212.00
Avg. No. of competitors(cum.)
1537
100.03
47.98
0.00
78.00
97.25
119.33
214.00
Avg. No. of competitors(change)
1537
21.76
31.03
−10.00
5.75
15.29
24.44
212.00
Avg. No. of engagement(one-period)
1537
41.57
68.90
0.00
4.00
17.00
48.00
755.00
Avg. No. of engagement(cum.)
1537
39.24
56.63
0.00
6.00
18.70
48.67
496.86
Avg. No. of engagement(change)
1537
2.26
42.64
−228.00
−8.44
−0.50
5.00
512.22
Avg. length of review(one-period)
1537
102.36
50.30
0.00
77.83
104.39
128.58
446.00
Avg. length of review(cum.)
1537
127.49
36.43
13.00
105.42
123.76
146.33
481.00
Avg. length of review(change)
1537
−19.81
67.87
−329.50
−49.90
−25.66
0.37
446.00
Avg. review volume(one-period)
1537
27.43
42.61
0.00
4.00
13.00
34.00
714.00
Avg. review volume(cum.)
1537
20.41
26.88
0.00
3.30
10.89
27.00
290.00
Avg. review volume(change)
1537
8.36
24.74
−48.00
−0.20
1.67
9.00
471.11
Avg. rating(one-period)
1537
3.23
1.19
0.00
2.89
3.50
4.00
5.00
Avg. rating(cum.)
1537
3.48
0.66
1.00
3.11
3.55
3.93
5.00
Avg. rating(change)
1537
−0.26
1.04
−5.00
−0.41
−0.01
0.18
4.00
Avg. tastiness senti.(one-period)
1537
0.49
0.22
0.00
0.38
0.51
0.62
1.00
Avg.tastiness senti.(cum.)
1537
0.52
0.13
0.01
0.44
0.53
0.60
1.00
Avg.tastiness senti.(change)
1537
−0.04
0.20
−1.00
−0.10
0.00
0.05
0.75
Avg.service senti.(one-period)
1537
0.42
0.21
0.00
0.31
0.45
0.55
1.00
Avg.service senti.(cum.)
1537
0.44
0.13
0.01
0.36
0.44
0.52
1.00
Avg.service senti.(change)
1537
−0.01
0.18
−1.00
−0.09
0.00
0.07
0.84
Avg.location senti.(one-period)
1537
0.41
0.18
0.00
0.34
0.44
0.52
0.97
Avg.location senti.(cum.)
1537
0.43
0.10
0.10
0.37
0.44
0.49
0.96
Avg.location senti.(change)
1537
−0.02
0.16
−0.92
−0.07
0.00
0.06
0.63
Avg.price senti.(one-period)
1537
0.40
0.20
0.00
0.29
0.42
0.52
1.00
Avg.price senti.(cum.)
1537
0.43
0.13
0.01
0.34
0.43
0.50
0.99
Avg.price senti.(change)
1537
−0.02
0.18
−0.98
−0.10
0.00
0.06
0.90
Avg.atmosphere senti.(one-period)
1537
0.39
0.20
0.00
0.28
0.42
0.52
1.00
Avg.atmosphere senti.(cum.)
1537
0.41
0.13
0.02
0.32
0.42
0.49
0.99
Avg.atmosphere senti.(change)
1537
−0.02
0.17
−0.96
−0.08
0.00
0.06
0.83
Avg.general senti.(one-period)
1537
0.42
0.19
0.00
0.33
0.45
0.55
0.99
Avg.general senti.(cum.)
1537
0.44
0.12
0.04
0.37
0.45
0.52
0.98
Avg.general senti.(change)
1537
−0.02
0.17
−0.97
−0.08
0.00
0.06
0.67
Var.rating(one-period)
1537
1.19
0.82
0.00
0.51
1.28
1.78
4.00
Var.rating(cum.)
1537
1.29
0.55
0.00
0.99
1.31
1.59
4.00
Var.rating(change)
1537
−0.02
0.80
−3.36
−0.35
0.00
0.43
3.84
Var.tastiness senti.(one-period)
1537
0.08
0.05
0.00
0.05
0.09
0.11
0.24
Var.tastiness senti.(cum.)
1537
0.08
0.03
0.00
0.07
0.09
0.10
0.21
Var.tastiness senti.(change)
1537
0.00
0.05
−0.18
−0.02
0.00
0.03
0.19
Var.service senti.(one-period)
1537
0.08
0.05
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.12
0.24
Var.service senti.(cum.)
1537
0.09
0.03
0.00
0.08
0.09
0.11
0.21
Var.service senti.(change)
1537
0.00
0.05
−0.17
−0.02
0.00
0.03
0.23
Var.location senti.(one-period)
1537
0.05
0.03
0.00
0.03
0.06
0.07
0.22
Var.location senti.(cum.)
1537
0.05
0.02
0.00
0.05
0.06
0.06
0.19
(continued on next page)
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
19 

===== PAGE 20 =====
Table A2 (continued)
Count
Mean
Std
Min
25%
50%
75%
Max
Var.location senti.(change)
1537
0.00
0.03
−0.16
−0.01
0.00
0.02
0.16
Var.price senti.(one-period)
1537
0.08
0.05
0.00
0.05
0.09
0.11
0.24
Var.price senti.(cum.)
1537
0.09
0.03
0.00
0.08
0.09
0.10
0.21
Var.price senti.(change)
1537
0.00
0.05
−0.19
−0.02
0.00
0.02
0.21
Var.atmosphere senti.(one-period)
1537
0.07
0.05
0.00
0.04
0.08
0.10
0.24
Var.atmosphere senti.(cum.)
1537
0.07
0.03
0.00
0.06
0.08
0.09
0.21
Var.atmosphere senti.(change)
1537
0.00
0.04
−0.17
−0.02
0.00
0.02
0.20
Var.general senti.(one-period)
1537
0.06
0.04
0.00
0.04
0.07
0.09
0.22
Var.general senti.(cum.)
1537
0.07
0.02
0.00
0.06
0.07
0.08
0.21
Var.general senti.(change)
1537
0.00
0.04
−0.15
−0.02
0.00
0.02
0.17
Table A3
Sample size of closing and survival restaurants
Observation time
Predict period
Unbalanced closing restaurants
Unbalanced survival restaurants = balanced closing restaurants = balanced survival restaurants
2014
2015
105
1432
2015
2016
87
1487
2016
2017
96
1544
2017
2018
130
1570
2018
2019
104
1595
2014
2015–2016
184
1353
2015
2016–2017
167
1407
2016
2017–2018
207
1433
2017
2018–2019
229
1471
2014
2015–2017
252
1285
2015
2016–2018
270
1304
2016
2017–2019
298
1342
2014
2015–2018
343
1194
2015
2016–2019
351
1223
2014
2015–2019
416
1121
2019
2020
102
1611
2020
2021
21
1647
2019
2020–2021
123
1590
Table A4
One-year-ahead survival prediction results of all reviews
Algorithm
Model
AUC
Sensitivity
Specificity
KL divergence
Precision
f1 Score
Bayes
base
59.34%
29.84%
88.84%
0.2205
72.64%
42.10%
base + var.r
60.63%
32.39%
88.88%
0.1995
74.44%
44.88%
base + avg.s
62.23%
38.94%
85.52%
0.1269
73.09%
50.62%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
63.35%
42.29%
84.41%
0.1011
73.24%
53.47%
SVM
base
91.13%
84.56%
97.70%
0.0095
97.36%
90.47%
base + var.r
91.24%
84.70%
97.78%
0.0095
97.46%
90.58%
base + avg.s
91.16%
84.64%
97.69%
0.0094
97.35%
90.51%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
91.37%
84.94%
97.80%
0.0092
97.49%
90.73%
MLP
base
92.75%
88.73%
96.76%
0.0042
96.50%
92.40%
base + var.r
93.24%
89.26%
97.21%
0.0038
96.99%
92.93%
base + avg.s
94.19%
90.56%
97.83%
0.0034
97.68%
93.94%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
94.31%
90.52%
98.10%
0.0034
97.95%
94.06%
XGBoost
base
96.54%
96.70%
96.39%
0.0002
96.42%
96.55%
base + var.r
96.78%
96.77%
96.78%
0.0002
96.80%
96.78%
base + avg.s
96.77%
96.67%
96.88%
0.0003
96.90%
96.77%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
97.21%
96.69%
97.73%
0.0003
97.73%
97.20%
Table A5
Two-years-ahead survival prediction results of all reviews
Algorithm
Model
AUC
Sensitivity
Specificity
KL divergence
Precision
f1 Score
Bayes
base
57.42%
27.12%
87.71%
0.2371
68.88%
38.67%
base + var.r
57.88%
28.25%
87.52%
0.2239
69.54%
39.95%
base + avg.s
59.56%
35.14%
83.98%
0.1397
68.79%
46.39%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
61.17%
39.33%
83.02%
0.1101
70.01%
50.20%
SVM
base
85.40%
76.17%
94.62%
0.0185
93.49%
83.88%
base + var.r
85.71%
76.66%
94.76%
0.0177
93.67%
84.26%
base + avg.s
85.48%
76.25%
94.71%
0.0185
93.60%
83.97%
(continued on next page)
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
20 

===== PAGE 21 =====
Table A5 (continued)
Algorithm
Model
AUC
Sensitivity
Specificity
KL divergence
Precision
f1 Score
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
85.59%
76.45%
94.73%
0.0180
93.62%
84.11%
MLP
base
85.17%
80.17%
90.17%
0.0071
89.17%
84.33%
base + var.r
86.14%
81.16%
91.12%
0.0070
90.29%
85.38%
base + avg.s
86.52%
80.63%
92.42%
0.0089
91.47%
85.61%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
87.60%
82.18%
93.03%
0.0073
92.25%
86.85%
XGBoost
base
92.48%
92.95%
92.02%
0.0008
92.15%
92.51%
base + var.r
92.74%
92.95%
92.54%
0.0007
92.64%
92.76%
base + avg.s
57.42%
27.12%
87.71%
0.2371
68.88%
38.67%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
57.88%
28.25%
87.52%
0.2239
69.54%
39.95%
Table A6
Three-years-ahead survival prediction results of all reviews
Algorithm
Model
AUC
Sensitivity
Specificity
KL divergence
Precision
f1 Score
Bayes
base
57.00%
26.20%
87.80%
0.2432
68.13%
37.71%
base + var.r
57.60%
27.33%
87.88%
0.2336
69.21%
39.03%
base + avg.s
58.81%
33.32%
84.30%
0.1529
68.08%
44.65%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
59.46%
36.26%
82.66%
0.1236
67.75%
47.15%
SVM
base
81.15%
72.60%
89.70%
0.0160
87.69%
79.38%
base + var.r
81.23%
72.50%
89.96%
0.0167
87.96%
79.42%
base + avg.s
81.23%
72.63%
89.83%
0.0163
87.84%
79.45%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
81.38%
72.58%
90.19%
0.0170
88.21%
79.57%
MLP
base
81.24%
76.59%
85.89%
0.0068
84.62%
80.29%
base + var.r
81.59%
76.81%
86.37%
0.0070
85.17%
80.67%
base + avg.s
82.22%
77.03%
87.40%
0.0073
86.11%
81.23%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
83.81%
78.64%
88.98%
0.0065
87.81%
82.92%
XGBoost
base
88.68%
89.99%
87.36%
0.0013
87.74%
88.81%
base + var.r
88.69%
89.63%
87.75%
0.0011
88.04%
88.79%
base + avg.s
88.93%
89.24%
88.62%
0.0007
88.75%
88.96%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
89.91%
89.34%
90.48%
0.0009
90.42%
89.84%
Table A7
Four-years-ahead survival prediction results of all reviews
Algorithm
Model
AUC
Sensitivity
Specificity
KL divergence
Precision
f1 Score
Bayes
base
56.15%
24.31%
87.99%
0.2668
66.97%
35.50%
base + var.r
56.36%
24.68%
88.04%
0.2627
67.38%
35.97%
base + avg.s
58.42%
34.01%
82.83%
0.1394
66.51%
44.90%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
58.62%
36.37%
80.88%
0.1133
65.52%
46.67%
SVM
base
75.33%
66.62%
84.04%
0.0172
80.77%
72.93%
base + var.r
75.64%
67.04%
84.25%
0.0165
81.05%
73.31%
base + avg.s
75.42%
66.79%
84.05%
0.0169
80.81%
73.05%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
75.83%
67.04%
84.63%
0.0172
81.42%
73.46%
MLP
base
75.35%
70.62%
80.08%
0.0087
78.33%
74.08%
base + var.r
76.96%
73.00%
80.92%
0.0074
79.58%
75.95%
base + avg.s
76.69%
71.36%
82.02%
0.0090
80.05%
75.31%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
78.53%
73.43%
83.64%
0.0099
82.03%
77.27%
XGBoost
base
84.83%
86.05%
83.61%
0.0016
84.07%
85.00%
base + var.r
84.88%
85.52%
84.24%
0.0014
84.51%
84.96%
base + avg.s
84.34%
84.19%
84.49%
0.0014
84.51%
84.29%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
85.64%
85.60%
85.69%
0.0012
85.79%
85.64%
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
21 

===== PAGE 22 =====
Table A8
Five-years-ahead survival prediction results of all reviews
Algorithm
Model
AUC
Sensitivity
Specificity
KL divergence
Precision
f1 Score
Bayes
base
55.79%
24.62%
86.97%
0.2508
65.88%
35.72%
base + var.r
55.97%
25.07%
86.88%
0.2451
66.13%
36.23%
base + avg.s
58.34%
33.45%
83.22%
0.1448
66.92%
44.52%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
58.56%
35.42%
81.71%
0.1235
66.13%
46.03%
SVM
base
72.13%
62.45%
81.81%
0.0213
77.50%
69.06%
base + var.r
71.95%
62.00%
81.90%
0.0222
77.47%
68.78%
base + avg.s
72.08%
62.45%
81.72%
0.0214
77.43%
69.03%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
71.81%
61.55%
82.07%
0.0233
77.49%
68.52%
MLP
base
71.63%
65.02%
78.23%
0.0124
74.94%
69.47%
base + var.r
72.17%
66.27%
78.06%
0.0104
75.18%
70.30%
base + avg.s
75.64%
73.85%
77.43%
0.0061
76.96%
75.16%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
75.91%
73.14%
78.68%
0.0071
77.65%
75.09%
XGBoost
base
78.77%
79.13%
78.41%
0.0006
78.63%
78.85%
base + var.r
80.38%
80.73%
80.02%
0.0012
80.25%
80.45%
base + avg.s
80.51%
80.20%
80.82%
0.0014
80.79%
80.44%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
80.64%
80.20%
81.08%
0.0012
81.04%
80.57%
Table A9
One-year-ahead survival prediction results of all reviews during the COVID-19
Algorithm
Model
AUC
Sensitivity
Specificity
KL divergence
Precision
f1 Score
Bayes
base
63.97%
43.72%
84.23%
0.0974
72.55%
54.23%
base + var.r
67.36%
54.32%
80.40%
0.0467
72.98%
61.78%
base + avg.s
68.63%
56.97%
80.28%
0.0348
73.70%
63.96%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
69.87%
60.18%
79.55%
0.0369
74.12%
65.65%
SVM
base
95.69%
92.68%
98.70%
0.0023
98.57%
95.51%
base + var.r
95.86%
92.96%
98.76%
0.0022
98.65%
95.69%
base + avg.s
95.72%
92.71%
98.73%
0.0023
98.60%
95.54%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
95.91%
93.08%
98.73%
0.0020
98.62%
95.75%
MLP
base
95.96%
93.57%
98.36%
0.0019
98.23%
95.80%
base + var.r
96.50%
93.88%
99.13%
0.0021
99.06%
96.36%
base + avg.s
96.40%
94.47%
98.32%
0.0011
98.23%
96.30%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
96.69%
94.53%
98.85%
0.0015
98.77%
96.58%
XGBoost
base
98.19%
98.15%
98.23%
0.0001
98.25%
98.19%
base + var.r
98.47%
98.05%
98.88%
0.0001
98.88%
98.46%
base + avg.s
98.24%
97.96%
98.51%
0.0001
98.51%
98.23%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
98.41%
97.96%
98.85%
0.0001
98.84%
98.40%
Table A10
Two-years-ahead survival prediction results of all reviews during the COVID-19
Algorithm
Model
AUC
Sensitivity
Specificity
KL divergence
Precision
f1 Score
Bayes
base
56.26%
30.00%
82.52%
0.1656
63.65%
40.64%
base + var.r
60.63%
42.70%
78.55%
0.0697
66.74%
52.05%
base + avg.s
61.48%
46.60%
76.35%
0.0469
66.49%
54.78%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
62.92%
45.47%
80.38%
0.0660
69.97%
55.08%
SVM
base
91.26%
85.91%
96.60%
0.0064
96.23%
90.74%
base + var.r
91.19%
85.91%
96.48%
0.0063
96.09%
90.68%
base + avg.s
91.38%
86.16%
96.60%
0.0061
96.25%
90.89%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
91.32%
86.16%
96.48%
0.0060
96.11%
90.83%
MLP
base
91.45%
86.73%
96.16%
0.0049
95.78%
91.00%
base + var.r
92.23%
87.30%
97.17%
0.0052
96.87%
91.82%
base + avg.s
91.89%
87.42%
96.35%
0.0048
96.00%
91.46%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
93.46%
89.62%
97.30%
0.0033
97.09%
93.19%
XGBoost
base
95.50%
95.47%
95.53%
0.0002
95.56%
95.50%
base + var.r
96.45%
95.79%
97.11%
0.0003
97.08%
96.42%
base + avg.s
95.53%
95.35%
95.72%
0.0003
95.74%
95.53%
base + avg.s + var.r + var.s
96.76%
96.16%
97.36%
0.0003
97.35%
96.74%
Appendix C. Distribution of variance variable
In this study, we further analyzed the distribution of variance variable. Specifically, we analyze the distribution of variance variables from two
aspects of chain status restaurants and the restaurants of different average review volume levels, respectively. First, we classified all restaurants into
chain and independent restaurants, and divide all restaurants into restaurants with low review volume, restaurants with moderate review volume,
restaurants with high review volume and restaurants with very high review volume according to the average review volume of less than 10, 10 to 20,
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
22 

===== PAGE 23 =====
20 to 50, and more than 50. Second, we classified variance into four ranges according to the upper and lower quartiles and the median value of the
variance variables. Lastly, we calculated the proportion of the four variance ranges in restaurants of different chain status and of different average
review volume levels. Resulted showed that the distribution of rating variance and sentiment variance exhibited similar patterns. As such, Figure A1
and Figure A2 displayed the distribution of rating variance and overall sentiment variance, respectively, in restaurants of different chain status and of
different average review volume levels.
Our findings indicated that, compared to independent restaurants, chain restaurants exhibited a more stable pattern of variance in review ratings
and sentiments. Notably, restaurants with low review volume were more likely to exhibit extreme variance. Conversely, restaurants with moderate
review volume and high review volume rarely exhibited extremely low variance, typically experiencing significant fluctuations in review ratings and
sentiments. For those restaurants with very high review volume, they exhibited a moderate level of fluctuation in review ratings and sentiments,
without showing extreme variance.
Fig. A1. Distribution of chain business for some of the variance variables.
Notes: min, Q1, Q2, Q3 and max are the minimum, lower quartile, median, upper quartile and maximum value of the variance variables respectively.
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
23 

===== PAGE 24 =====
Fig. A2. Distribution of review volume for some of the variance variables.
Notes: min, Q1, Q2, Q3 and max are the minimum, lower quartile, median, upper quartile and maximum value of the variance variables respectively.
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
24 

===== PAGE 25 =====
Appendix D. Parameters of algorithms
Table A11
Parameters of four algorithms
Algorithm
Parameter
Bayes
GaussianNB(var_smoothing = 1e-9)
SVM
svm.SVC(kernel = ’rbf’, C = 50, gamma = 0.0001, random_state = 30)
MLP
MLPClassifier(random_state = 10, activation = ’logistic’, solver = ’adam’, max_iter = 1000, batch_size = 128, learning_rate_init = 0.001, hidden_layer_sizes=(100))
XGBoost
xgb.XGBClassifier(learning_rate = 0.07, n_estimators = 700, max_depth = 6, min_child_weight = 2, seed = 0, subsample = 0.5, colsample_bytree = 0.6, gamma = 0.01,
reg_alpha = 0.1, reg_lambda = 2)
Appendix E. Feature importance during the pandemic
We employed the same method to analyze the impact of all variables in base + avg.s + var.r + var.s model using all reviews on restaurant survival
prediction during the pandemic (using the data from 2004 to 2019 to predict restaurant survival status in 2020). Figure A3 shows the feature
importance analysis.
First, our results indicated that, in base variables, price, avg. no. of competitors (one-period), and business age are the three most important
variables influencing restaurant survival during the pandemic. Both price and business age have been identified as important factors affecting business
survival, regardless of before or during the pandemic. However, the current number of competitors has gained increasing importance to restaurant
survival during the pandemic, whereas the importance of being a chain business has decreased during this period. These findings vividly uphold the
importance of business competitiveness to restaurant survival during the pandemic, a period featured by intense competition. In addition, the results
also underscore the important role of both the avg. amount of engagement (cum.) and the avg. review volume (cum), which rank fourth and fifth in
importance, respectively.
Second, regarding the average variables, avg. service senti. (one-period) is of most importance, followed by the avg. atmosphere senti. (cum.), avg.
service senti. (cum.), and avg. tastiness senti. (one-period). In addition, cumulative variables appeared to be more important to restaurant survival
before the pandemic compared to during the pandemic, where current variables exhibited more importance. This interesting finding can be attributed
to consumers’ increasing attention to recent/short-term trends/status of restaurants during the pandemic.
Third, it is found that, overall, variance variables exerted more pronounced impact on restaurant survival compared to average variables. This
further upholds the above conclusion in our study: models incorporating variance variables showed significant improvement in prediction perfor-
mances. Specifically, var. location senti. (cum.), var. price senti. (one-period), and var. rating (one-period) are the three most important variables
influencing restaurant survival. Given that restaurant’s location is a more objective factor and is unlikely to be changed frequently, consumers are thus
more likely to focus on its long-term variance. However, echoing our earlier discussion, consumers appear to place greater emphasis on recent
fluctuations in price sentiment and review ratings during the pandemic, where consumers become more cautious and pay closer attention to recent
changes. This further demonstrates the critical role of current variables in restaurant survival during the pandemic. Furthermore, variables concerning
atmosphere (i.e., var. atmosphere senti. (change), var. atmosphere senti. (cum), and var. atmosphere senti. (one-period)) also provide valuable in-
sights to restaurant survival prediction.
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
25 

===== PAGE 26 =====
Fig. A3. Results of feature importance analysis during the COVID-19.
References
Abed, S. S. (2022). A literature review exploring the role of technology in business
survival during the Covid-19 lockdowns. International Journal of Organizational
Analysis, 30(5), 1045–1062.
Agarwal, R., Sarkar, M. B., & Echambadi, R. (2002). The conditioning effect of time on
firm survival: An industry life cycle approach. Academy of Management Journal, 45
(5), 971–994.
Amankwah-Amoah, J. (2016). An integrative process model of organisational failure.
Journal of Business Research, 69(9), 3388–3397.
Amankwah-Amoah, J., & Wang, X. (2019). Business failures around the world: Emerging
trends and new research agenda. Journal of Business Research, 98, 367–369.
Anagnostopoulou, S. C., Buhalis, D., Kountouri, I. L., Manousakis, E. G., &
Tsekrekos, A. E. (2019). The impact of online reputation on hotel profitability.
International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality Management, 32(1), 20–39.
Babi´c Rosario, A., Sotgiu, F., De Valck, K., & Bijmolt, T. H. (2016). The effect of electronic
word of mouth on sales: A meta-analytic review of platform, product, and metric
factors. Journal of Marketing Research, 53(3), 297–318.
Baek, H., Ahn, J., & Choi, Y. (2012). Helpfulness of online consumer reviews: Readers’
objectives and review cues. International Journal of Electronic Commerce, 17(2),
99–126.
Bakhshi, S., Kanuparthy, P., & Shamma, D. A. (2015). Understanding online reviews:
Funny, cool or useful?. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM conference on computer
supported cooperative work & social computing (pp. 1270–1276).
Baum¨ohl, E., Iwasaki, I., & Koˇcenda, E. (2019). Institutions and determinants of firm
survival in European emerging markets. Journal of Corporate Finance, 58, 431–453.
Belarmino, A., Demirciftci, T., & Zhang, L. (2021). Online reviews and travel magazine
awards: Their influence on willingness-to-pay. Journal of Revenue and Pricing
Management, 20(4), 436–445.
Borchert, P., Coussement, K., De Caigny, A., & De Weerdt, J. (2023). Extending business
failure prediction models with textual website content using deep learning. European
Journal of Operational Research, 306(1), 348–357.
Bove, L. L., & Benoit, S. (2020). Restrict, clean and protect: Signaling consumer safety
during the pandemic and beyond. Journal of Service Management, 31(6), 1185–1202.
Cecchini, M., Aytug, H., Koehler, G. J., & Pathak, P. (2010). Making words work: Using
financial text as a predictor of financial events. Decision Support Systems, 50(1),
164–175.
Chhatwani, M., Mishra, S. K., Varma, A., & Rai, H. (2022). Psychological resilience and
business survival chances: A study of small firms in the USA during COVID-19.
Journal of Business Research, 142, 277–286.
Chua, B. L., Karim, S., Lee, S., & Han, H. (2020). Customer restaurant choice: An
empirical analysis of restaurant types and eating-out occasions. International Journal
of Environmental Research and Public Health, 17(17), 6276.
Clemons, E. K., Gao, G. G., & Hitt, L. M. (2006). When online reviews meet
hyperdifferentiation: A study of the craft beer industry. Journal of Management
Information Systems, 23(2), 149–171.
Cohen, J. (1960). A coefficient of agreement for nominal scales. Educational and
Psychological Measurement, 20(1), 37–46.
Cˆorte-Real, N., Oliveira, T., & Ruivo, P. (2017). Assessing business value of big data
analytics in European firms. Journal of Business Research, 70, 379–390.
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
26 

===== PAGE 27 =====
Cucculelli, M., & Peruzzi, V. (2020). Post-crisis firm survival, business model changes,
and learning: Evidence from the Italian manufacturing industry. Small Business
Economics, 54, 459–474.
Danciu, I., Agasthya, G., Tate, J. P., Chandra-Shekar, M., Goethert, I.,
Ovchinnikova, O. S., … Justice, A. C. (2022). In with the old, in with the new:
Machine learning for time to event biomedical research. Journal of the American
Medical Informatics Association, 29(10), 1737–1743.
Deloitte, M. (2020). Impact of the COVID-19 crisis on short-and medium-term consumer
behavior: Will the COVID-19 crisis have a lasting effect on consumption?. https
://www2.deloitte.com/sk/en/pages/consumer-business/articles/impact-of-covid-1
9-on-short-and-medium-term-consumer-behavior.html.
Ding, D., Lang, T., Zou, D., Tan, J., Chen, J., Zhou, L., … Zhou, Q. (2021). Machine
learning-based prediction of survival prognosis in cervical cancer. BMC
Bioinformatics, 22(1), 1–17.
Du, C., Chen, Z., Feng, F., Zhu, L., Gan, T., & Nie, L. (2019, July). In Explicit interaction
model towards text classification, 33 pp. 6359–6366) (1).
Duan, W., Gu, B., & Whinston, A. B. (2008). The dynamics of online word-of-mouth and
product sales—an empirical investigation of the movie industry. Journal of Retailing,
84(2), 233–242.
Fan, N., Lai, S., Fan, Z. P., & Chen, Y. (2023). Exit and transition: Exploring the survival
status of Airbnb listings in a time of professionalization. Tourism Management, 95,
Article 104665.
Fawcett, T. (2006). An introduction to ROC analysis. Pattern Recognition Letters, 27(8),
861–874.
Feldman, J. M., & Lynch, J. G. (1988). Self-generated validity and other effects of
measurement on belief, attitude, intention, and behavior. Journal of Applied
Psychology, 73(3), 421.
Fernandes, E., Moro, S., Cortez, P., Batista, F., & Ribeiro, R. (2021). A data-driven
approach to measure restaurant performance by combining online reviews with
historical sales data. International Journal of Hospitality Management, 94, Article
102830.
Filieri, R., Raguseo, E., & Vitari, C. (2019). What moderates the influence of extremely
negative ratings? The role of review and reviewer characteristics. International
Journal of Hospitality Management, 77, 333–341.
Fletcher, G., & Griffiths, M. (2020). Digital transformation during a lockdown.
International Journal of Information Management, 55, Article 102185.
Geng, R., Bose, I., & Chen, X. (2015). Prediction of financial distress: An empirical study
of listed Chinese companies using data mining. European Journal of Operational
Research, 241(1), 236–247.
Hass, R. G. (1982). Effects of source characteristics on cognitive responses and
persuasion. In Cognitive responses in persuasion (pp. 141–172). Psychology Press.
Hensler, D. A., Rutherford, R. C., & Springer, T. M. (1997). The survival of initial public
offerings in the aftermarket. Journal of Financial Research, 20(1), 93–110.
Hoang, M., Bihorac, O. A., & Rouces, J. (2019). Aspect-based sentiment analysis using
bert. In Proceedings of the 22nd nordic conference on computational linguistics (pp.
187–196).
Hoang, N. T., & Khuong, M. N. (2015). The effects of consumer-generated media on
Vietnamese travellers decision making-Mediation analysis of perceived creditability
and trust. International Journal of Electronic Commerce Studies, 6(2), 315–330.
Hutzschenreuter, T., Borchers, S. A., & Harhoff, P. L. (2021). Competitors matter: How
competitors’ actions moderate the influence of firm profitability on the prioritization
between growth and efficiency increase. Managerial and Decision Economics, 42(2),
326–342.
Kalafi, E. Y., Nor, N. A. M., Taib, N. A., Ganggayah, M. D., Town, C., & Dhillon, S. K.
(2019). Machine learning and deep learning approaches in breast cancer survival
prediction using clinical data. Folia Biologica, 65(5/6), 212–220.
Kim, J., Kim, J., & Wang, Y. (2021). Uncertainty risks and strategic reaction of restaurant
firms amid COVID-19: Evidence from China. International Journal of Hospitality
Management, 92, Article 102752.
Kim, W. G., Li, J. J., & Brymer, R. A. (2016). The impact of social media reviews on
restaurant performance: The moderating role of excellence certificate. International
Journal of Hospitality Management, 55, 41–51.
Kotsiantis, S. B., Zaharakis, I., & Pintelas, P. (2007). Supervised machine learning: A
review of classification techniques. Emerging Artificial Intelligence Applications in
Computer Engineering, 160(1), 3–24.
Ladhari, R., & Michaud, M. (2015). eWOM effects on hotel booking intentions, attitudes,
trust, and website perceptions. International Journal of Hospitality Management, 46,
36–45.
Lampinen, J., & Vehtari, A. (2001). Bayesian approach for neural networks—review and
case studies. Neural Networks, 14(3), 257–274.
Landis, J. R., & Koch, G. G. (1977). The measurement of observer agreement for
categorical data. Biometrics, 159–174.
Langan, R., Besharat, A., & Varki, S. (2017). The effect of review valence and variance on
product evaluations: An examination of intrinsic and extrinsic cues. International
Journal of Research in Marketing, 34(2), 414–429.
Lee, M.-C. (2014). Business bankruptcy prediction based on survival analysis approach.
International Journal of Computer Science & Information Technology, 6(2), 103.
Lee, I. (2017). Big data: Dimensions, evolution, impacts, and challenges. Business
Horizons, 60(3), 293–303.
Lee, H. A., Law, R., & Murphy, J. (2011). Helpful reviewers in TripAdvisor, an online
travel community. Journal of Travel & Tourism Marketing, 28(7), 675–688.
Lee, S., Lee, D., & Yu, H. (2021). Oommix: Out-of-manifold regularization in contextual
embedding space for text classification. In Proceedings of the 59th annual meeting of
the association for computational linguistics and the 11th international joint conference on
natural language processing (pp. 590–599).
Li, H., Bruce, X., Li, G., & Gao, H. (2023). Restaurant survival prediction using customer-
generated content: An aspect-based sentiment analysis of online reviews. Tourism
Management, 96, Article 104707.
Li, H., Meng, F., Jeong, M., & Zhang, Z. (2020). To follow others or be yourself? Social
influence in online restaurant reviews. International Journal of Contemporary
Hospitality Management, 32(3), 1067–1087.
Li, X., Zhang, X., JiaHao, P., Mao, R., Zhou, M., Xie, X., & Liao, H. (2022). A joint
learning framework for restaurant survival prediction and explanation. In
Proceedings of the 2022 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing
(pp. 3285–3297).
Li, H., Zhang, Z., Meng, F., & Janakiraman, R. (2017). Is peer evaluation of consumer
online reviews socially embedded? – An examination combining reviewer’s social
network and social identity. International Journal of Hospitality Management, 67,
143–153.
Lian, J., Zhang, F., Xie, X., & Sun, G. (2017). Restaurant survival analysis with
heterogeneous information. In Proceedings of the 26th international conference on
world wide web companion (pp. 993–1002).
Liao, H., Zhang, X., Li, X., Zhou, M., Vidmer, A., & Mao, R. (2020). A Deep Concept-
aware Model for predicting and explaining restaurant future status. In 2020 IEEE
international conference on web services (ICWS) (pp. 559–567). IEEE.
Ling, C. X., Huang, J., & Zhang, H. (2003). Auc: A statistically consistent and more
discriminating measure than accuracy. Ijcai, 519–524.
Liu, Z., & Park, S. (2015). What makes a useful online review? Implication for travel
product websites. Tourism Management, 47, 140–151.
Lo, A. S., & Yao, S. S. (2019). What makes hotel online reviews credible? An investigation
of the roles of reviewer expertise, review rating consistency and review valence.
International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality Management, 31(1), 41–60.
Lu, L., Wu, L., & He, Z. (2020). Is your restaurant worth the risk? A motivational
perspective on reviews’ rating distribution and volume. Journal of Hospitality &
Tourism Research, 44(8), 1291–1317.
Luo, X., Raithel, S., & Wiles, M. A. (2013). The impact of brand rating dispersion on firm
value. Journal of Marketing Research, 50(3), 399–415.
Mai, F., Tian, S., Lee, C., & Ma, L. (2019). Deep learning models for bankruptcy
prediction using textual disclosures. European Journal of Operational Research, 274
(2), 743–758.
Manj´on-Antolín, M. C., & Arauzo-Carod, J.-M. (2008). Firm survival: Methods and
evidence. Empirica, 35, 1–24.
McKinsey Global Institute. (2021). The consumer demand recovery and lasting effects of
COVID-19. https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/consumer-packaged-goods/our-
insights/the-consumer-demand-recovery-and-lasting-effects-of-covid-19.
Menon, G., Raghubir, P., & Schwarz, N. (1995). Behavioral frequency judgments: An
accessibility-diagnosticity framework. Journal of Consumer Research, 22(2), 212–228.
Moe, W. W., & Trusov, M. (2011). The value of social dynamics in online product ratings
forums. Journal of Marketing Research, 48(3), 444–456.
Moncada-Torres, A., van Maaren, M. C., Hendriks, M. P., Siesling, S., & Geleijnse, G.
(2021). Explainable machine learning can outperform Cox regression predictions
and provide insights in breast cancer survival. Scientific Reports, 11(1), 6968.
Mudambi, S. M., & Schuff, D. (2010). Research note: What makes a helpful online
review? A study of customer reviews on Amazon.com. MIS Quarterly, 34(1),
185–200.
Nakayama, M., & Wan, Y. (2019). The cultural impact on social commerce: A sentiment
analysis on Yelp ethnic restaurant reviews. Information & Management, 56(2),
271–279.
National Restaurant Association. (2023). Restaurant industry facts at a glance. https://
restaurant.org/research-and-media/research/industry-statistics/national-statistics/.
Naumzik, C., Feuerriegel, S., & Weinmann, M. (2022). I will survive: Predicting business
failures from customer ratings. Marketing Science, 41(1), 188–207.
Ohanian, R. (1990). Construction and validation of a scale to measure celebrity
endorsers’ perceived expertise, trustworthiness, and attractiveness. Journal of
Advertising, 19(3), 39–52.
Padillo Jr, C., Go, N., Manreal, P., Samson, S., Galli, B., Yamagishi, K., … Ocampo, L.
(2022). Modelling the priority attributes of customer loyalty in Philippine single-dish
restaurants. Journal of Modelling in Management, 17(4), 1432–1455.
Park, Y. S., & Lek, S. (2016). Artificial neural networks: Multilayer perceptron for
ecological modeling. In , Vol. 28. Developments in environmental modelling (pp.
123–140). Elsevier.
Park, S. B., & Park, D. H. (2013). The effect of low-versus high-variance in product
reviews on product evaluation. Psychology and Marketing, 30(7), 543–554.
Parsa, H. G., Self, J., Sydnor-Busso, S., & Yoon, H. J. (2011). Why restaurants fail? Part II
- the impact of affiliation, location, and size on restaurant failures: Results from a
survival analysis. Journal of Foodservice Business Research, 14(4), 360–379.
Parsa, H. G., van der Rest, J.-P. I., Smith, S. R., Parsa, R. A., & Bujisic, M. (2015). Why
restaurants fail? Part IV:The relationship between restaurant failures and
demographic factors. Cornell Hospitality Quarterly, 56(1), 80–90.
Petrocelli, J. V., Tormala, Z. L., & Rucker, D. D. (2007). Unpacking attitude certainty:
Attitude clarity and attitude correctness. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology,
92(1), 30.
Prashar, P. (2016, September 8). “The impact of online reviews on the hospitality
industry”. HospitalityNet. https://www.hospitalitynet.org/opinion/4078144.html.
Resende, M., Cardoso, V., & Façanha, L. O. (2016). Determinants of survival of newly
created SMEs in the Brazilian manufacturing industry: An econometric study.
Empirical Economics, 50, 1255–1274.
Schuckert, M., Liu, X., & Law, R. (2015). Hospitality and tourism online reviews: Recent
trends and future directions. Journal of Travel & Tourism Marketing, 32(5), 608–621.
Soto-Simeone, A., Sir´en, C., & Antretter, T. (2020). New venture survival: A review and
extension. International Journal of Management Reviews, 22(4), 378–407.
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
27 

===== PAGE 28 =====
Spence, M. (2002). Signaling in retrospect and the informational structure of markets.
The American Economic Review, 92(3), 434–459.
Statista. (2023). Restaurants in the U.S. - statistics & facts. https://www.statista.
com/topics/1135/us-restaurants/#topicOverview.
Sun, M. (2012). How does the variance of product ratings matter? Management Science,
58(4), 696–707.
Sun, C., Huang, L., & Qiu, X. (2019). Utilizing BERT for aspect-based sentiment analysis via
constructing auxiliary sentence.
Tao, J., & Zhou, L. (2020). Can online consumer reviews signal restaurant closure: A deep
learning-based time-series analysis. IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, 70
(3), 834–848.
Tucker, T. (2011). Online word of mouth: Characteristics of Yelp. Com reviews. Elon
Journal of Undergraduate Research in Communications, 2(1), 37–42.
Vallapuram, A. K., Nanda, N., Kwon, Y. D., & Hui, P. (2021). Interpretable business
survival prediction. In Proceedings of the 2021 IEEE/ACM international conference on
advances in social networks analysis and mining (pp. 99–106).
Vu, H. Q., Li, G., Law, R., & Zhang, Y. (2019). Exploring tourist dining preferences based
on restaurant reviews. Journal of Travel Research, 58(1), 149–167.
Wang, F., Liu, X., & Fang, E. E. (2015). User reviews variance, critic reviews variance,
and product sales: An exploration of customer breadth and depth effects. Journal of
Retailing, 91(3), 372–389.
Wang, A., Singh, A., Michael, J., Hill, F., Levy, O., & Bowman, S. R. (2018). Glue: A multi-
task benchmark and analysis platform for natural language understanding. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1804.07461.
Wiener-Bronner, D. (2023). Covid shrank the restaurant industry. That’s not changing
anytime soon. CNN. https://edition.cnn.com/2023/02/25/business/restaurant-clos
ures/index.html.
Wieprow, J., & Gawlik, A. (2021). The use of discriminant analysis to assess the risk of
bankruptcy of enterprises in crisis conditions using the example of the tourism sector
in Poland. Risks, 9(4), 78.
Wu, X., Jin, L., & Xu, Q. (2021). Expertise makes perfect: How the variance of a
reviewer’s historical ratings influences the persuasiveness of online reviews. Journal
of Retailing, 97(2), 238–250.
Wu, J., Wu, Y., Sun, J., & Yang, Z. (2013). User reviews and uncertainty assessment: A
two stage model of consumers’ willingness-to-pay in online markets. Decision Support
Systems, 55(1), 175–185.
Xiang, Z., Du, Q., Ma, Y., & Fan, W. (2017). A comparative analysis of major online
review platforms: Implications for social media analytics in hospitality and tourism.
Tourism Management, 58, 51–65.
Yang, B., He, Y., Liu, H., Chen, Y., & Jin, Z. (2020). A lightweight fault localization
approach based on xgboost. In 2020 IEEE 20th international conference on software
quality, reliability and security (QRS) (pp. 168–179). IEEE.
Yu, L., & Liu, H. (2004). Efficient feature selection via analysis of relevance and
redundancy. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 5, 1205–1224.
Zeng, B., Yang, H., Xu, R., Zhou, W., & Han, X. (2019). Lcf: A local context focus
mechanism for aspect-based sentiment classification. Applied Sciences, 9(16), 3389.
Zhang, M., & Luo, L. (2023). Can consumer-posted photos serve as a leading indicator of
restaurant survival? Evidence from Yelp. Management Science, 69(1), 25–50.
Zhang, Z., Zhang, Z., & Yang, Y. (2016). The power of expert identity: How website-
recognized expert reviews influence travelers’ online rating behavior. Tourism
Management, 55, 15–24.
Hengyun Li is an Associate professor in the School of Hotel and
Tourism Management at The Hong Kong Polytechnic Univer-
sity. His research interests include user-generated content and
big data analytics in tourism and hospitality.
Anqi Zhou is a post-graduate student in the School of Data
Science and Artificial Intelligence at Dongbei University of
Finance and Economics. Her research interests include natural
language processing, machine learning and survival analysis.
Xiang (Kevin) Zheng is a Ph.D. student in the School of Hotel
and Tourism Management at The Hong Kong Polytechnic
University. His research interests include digital marketing and
consumer behaviour in tourism and hospitality.
Jian Xu is a Professor in Dongbei University of Finance and
Economics. He received his Ph.D. degree in Marketing from
Dongbei University of Finance and Economics. His research
interests include social media, information security, and
tourism.
Jing Zhang is an Associate Professor at Dongbei University of
Finance and Economics. She received her Ph.D. degree in
computer application technology from the Dalian University of
Technology. Her current research interests include natural
language
processing,
machine
learning
and
survival
prediction.
H. Li et al.
Tourism Management 107 (2025) 105038 
28 
