
===== PAGE 1 =====
Retail Trade as a Route to 
Neighborhood Revitalization
karen chapple and rick jacobus
A
t the end of World War II, most American neighborhoods were serviced
by neighborhood commercial districts populated with stores selling food,
clothing, household goods, jewelry, and other items. The strongest of these dis-
tricts successfully competed with downtowns as locations for major department
stores. But rapid suburbanization and the development of automobile-oriented
shopping centers led to the decline of most of these historic commercial dis-
tricts.1 In low-income and minority neighborhoods, the decline of neighbor-
hood retail coincided with dramatic shifts in residential housing patterns as
middle-income minorities and white families of all income levels moved out of
urban neighborhoods, leaving behind increasingly concentrated poverty and
racially segregated neighborhoods. By the 1980s, growing income inequality
was contributing to a “spiral of decay” in which declining incomes and popula-
tion losses led to declining retail and other neighborhood conditions, which, in
turn, caused further outmigration.2 This was especially true in communities of
color. While the 1990s saw the return of some more affluent and white residents
to the inner city, neighborhood commercial strips have been slower to
revitalize.3 By 2000, half as many central city neighborhoods had a middle-
income profile as in 1970, suggesting that these areas epitomize national pat-
terns of growing income inequality.4 Disinvestment has remained so pervasive
19
2
We gratefully acknowledge suggestions from Karl Seidman and the excellent research
assistance from Lauren Lambie-Hanson. Any errors are, of course, our own.
1. Fogelson (2001).
2. Wilson (1987).
3. Wilson (1987).
4. Booza, et al. (2006). 
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 19

===== PAGE 2 =====
that policymakers (urged on by Michael Porter) paradoxically consider these
older neighborhoods to be “new” or “emerging” markets.
Neighborhood commercial disinvestment stems not only from population
shifts but also from shifting consumption patterns. Most obvious, the rise of big
box retail, now commonly called the Wal-Martization of retail, has vastly
increased the type and quantity of goods available to consumers, for the most
part at lower prices. “Big box” means larger market areas and stores, but rarely
in the traditional commercial corridor locations. The need for larger sites and
freeway access means that this type of retail generally must locate in industrial or
commercial areas distant from residential neighborhoods, most often requiring
the use of an automobile. Moreover, as consumers increasingly purchase goods
in bulk from discounters, the car has become essential to the shopping trip.
Though the debate is ongoing about whether big box outlets cannibalize or
complement small local stores, this overall shift in retailing has undoubtedly dis-
couraged retailers from locating in neighborhood retail strips.5
Across the country, local governments and community-based organizations
are operating a wide variety of programs that seek to reverse this decline. These
programs intervene in neighborhood retail markets by attracting new retail busi-
nesses or supporting existing businesses, building new commercial real estate, or
improving quality-of-life conditions that stand in the way of retail development.
Although these programs are part of a broader attempt to revitalize disinvested
urban neighborhoods, their proponents have generally not articulated the spe-
cific mechanisms through which they are expected to contribute to revitaliza-
tion. This chapter will fill that gap by describing how retail reinvestment might,
at least in theory, lead to neighborhood revitalization. 
Are retail strategies successful? As this chapter will show, few formal evalua-
tions have been completed, and even those tend to measure discrete outcomes
such as job creation rather than the contribution of programs to overall neigh-
borhood well-being. Evaluating retail development programs is difficult, first,
because of their small scale, and second, because of the variety of actors
involved. Generally, retail development programs are very local efforts—
targeting a single neighborhood or, in some cases, areas as small as one or two
city blocks. The relative shortage of neighborhood-level capacity (including
community-based organizations, or CBOs, and private market actors such as
realtors and real estate developers focused on inner-city neighborhoods) makes
it difficult to develop and sustain programs. Moreover, many revitalization
efforts are relatively small-scale pilots implemented for limited periods of time,
with minimal funding. Finally, different stakeholders move in and out of retail
revitalization, depending on foundation fashions and political conditions. Alter-
20
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
5. Artz and Stone (2006); Basker (2005); Stone (1997); Civic Economics (2002).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 20

===== PAGE 3 =====
natively, the federal government, the mayor’s office, the redevelopment agency,
intermediaries such as the Local Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC) or
Main Street programs, merchants’ associations, local chambers of commerce,
and local business development centers may get involved in commercial corri-
dors in joint or separate efforts.
The evaluations to date use anecdotal and program outcome data to show
that these efforts do result in some increased market activity, increased sales tax
revenue, and even an improved sense of community pride. But since very few
studies have looked at these outcomes in the context of comparison neighbor-
hoods, it is hard to know if the intervention, rather than other factors, caused
the improvement. Only studies of empowerment zones tend to employ quasi-
experimental designs with control neighborhoods.6
Though it is possible that programs are creating overall economic growth,
there are several plausible alternative explanations as well. First, retail develop-
ment strategies may be causing retail activity to shift between neighborhoods:
rather than creating net new activity, resurgence in one place means decline in
another. Second, retail consumption may be shifting back to more traditional
neighborhood-based patterns. Third, the return of higher-income residents to
urban neighborhoods may be stimulating improvements in retail activity. In
other words, just as the flight of the urban middle class caused the decline of
retail, its return is generating a resurgence.
If some part of this third explanation is accurate—that is, improvements in
neighborhood retail conditions are associated with changes in the housing pref-
erences of U.S. households and in the widespread strength of the housing mar-
ket in the early part of this decade—an interesting chicken-and-egg question
arises. In addition to population shifts fueling the retail sector, might improve-
ments in neighborhood retail be stimulating residential revitalization? If so, the
case for retail revitalization becomes much more compelling, and one key ques-
tion becomes what kind of revitalization is occurring: an influx of upper-income
households replacing lower-income residents, a diversification of household
incomes, or income improvements for existing residents? 
This chapter begins by outlining the relationship between retail and neigh-
borhood revitalization, presenting a conceptual model of how changes in one
shapes the other. We then examine the issue of the retail gap: although interest
in retail revitalization is based upon a presumption that low-income neighbor-
hoods are underserved, the evidence on this point is conflicting, and measure-
ment is generally poor. Next, we examine three broad strategies for retail revital-
ization: public-led retail development, private-led retail development, and
commercial corridor revitalization. As the following section shows, each has had
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
21
6. See, for example, Oakley and Tsao (2006).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 21

===== PAGE 4 =====
varying effects on revitalization outcomes, from job creation to improving
neighborhood identity. We then provide a case study of revitalization in the San
Francisco Bay Area, analyzing the relationship between retail and neighborhood
revitalization from 1990 to 2005 in a region with unusual increases in income
inequality accompanied by significant revitalization. A conclusion offers
thoughts for further research.
How Does Neighborhood Revitalization through Retail Work?
Proponents of retail development programs cite a wide range of sometimes con-
flicting reasons for pursuing these strategies. These programs can raise local and
state tax revenues, often with just minimal expenditures, since they typically use
underutilized infrastructure. New retail projects or revitalized corridors act as
catalysts for further public and private development. They also provide entrepre-
neurship opportunities and create jobs for neighborhood residents.
Successful commercial development can make low-income neighborhoods
more attractive places to live for working families and individuals, while also
stemming the outflow of the low-income population—thus diversifying income
levels in communities. But making neighborhoods more desirable might also
spur gentrification—the attraction of new middle- and upper-income residents
into previously decaying neighborhoods, typically associated with an increase in
property values and sometimes the displacement of lower-income households as
well. In the following section, we first examine the debate over neighborhood
revitalization and gentrification and then turn to the question of how retail revi-
talization might be connected to neighborhood revitalization. 
What Is Neighborhood Revitalization? 
At the outset, it is important to distinguish among different forms of revitaliza-
tion. By definition, revitalization can only take place in areas that are initially
declining or low income. In these neighborhoods, the process of revitalization
might lead to three different types of outcomes for residents. Some low-income
areas might remain essentially low income but with improved access to services
and opportunities. One example of this is the Dudley Street Neighborhood Ini-
tiative in Boston, which seems to have stabilized and revitalized the neighbor-
hood without a substantial influx of more affluent residents.7 Another form of
revitalization occurs as a low-income neighborhood becomes mixed income,
either through an influx of more affluent residents or through improvements in
the incomes of existing residents (or both). Of particular interest are neighbor-
hoods that gain middle-income, rather than upper-income, residents; although
22
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
7. Medoff and Sklar (1994).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 22

===== PAGE 5 =====
the majority of U.S. neighborhoods are diverse, most are losing their middle-
income households (which is due, in part, to increasing income inequality
nationwide).8 Research has documented how revitalization strategies from
small-scale community interventions to physical redevelopment can benefit
existing residents and stabilize diverse communities; however, it should be noted
that these studies focus more on racial rather than on income diversity.9
If the community does not remain mixed income, but continues to attract
more affluent residents who gradually replace the existing low-income residents,
then a third form of revitalization, gentrification, has occurred, often without
benefit to existing residents. Though definitions of gentrification vary, these
neighborhoods generally experience disinvestment followed by an influx of rein-
vestment and households of higher socioeconomic status and educational
attainment.10 Such neighborhood change transforms the “essential character and
flavor of the neighborhood.”11
Gentrification has been widely documented, with most commonly cited
examples in New York, Chicago, Boston, and San Francisco.12 However, a
debate still flourishes about the extent to which this process is accompanied by
displacement. Particularly in the hottest real estate markets, with rising rents
and property taxes, redevelopment of existing housing, condo conversions, or
even outright evictions can result in displacement of existing residents. Yet, there
is some evidence that household mobility rates are relatively lower in gentrifying
neighborhoods (perhaps as more households choose to stay), and even those
who dispute that finding admit that only a small share of renters move because
of displacement.13
If middle-income residents depart as well, then the neighborhood may well
become bipolar, with growth in the share of both very low- and very high-income
households.14 Public policies promoting revitalization may help set in motion
these processes of gentrification and bipolarity. Yet, ironically, the stated intent of
many of these policies is to facilitate the creation of mixed-income communities. 
William Julius Wilson suggested that the income mix in a community was
key to the life outcomes of poor residents.15 The concentration of poverty left
poor communities without the stabilizing influence of middle-income house-
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
23
8. Galster and others (2005).
9. Goodman and Monti (1999); Nyden and others (1997).
10. Freeman (2005); Wyly and Hammel (2004).
11. Kennedy and Leonard (2001).
12. See Wyly and Hammel (1999).
13. Freeman and Braconi (2004); McKinnish, Walsh, and White (2008); Newman and
Wyly (2006). Newman and Wyly find that from 1989 to 2002, 6.6 percent to 9.9 percent of
all local moves among renter households were due to displacement.
14. Galster and Booza (2007).
15. Wilson (1987).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 23

===== PAGE 6 =====
holds. A growing consensus of policymakers and academics suggests that poli-
cies that promote the formation of more mixed-income communities will
benefit poor families. There are essentially three ways in which the low-
income benefit from the presence of more affluent neighbors, the first two
generally are accepted and the third is still hotly debated. First, residents may
gain from the better resources and services available in neighborhoods with
more middle- and upper-income residents; second, such neighborhoods have
better mechanisms for informal social control; and third, social interaction
with more affluent neighbors may (but probably will not) improve access to
opportunity.16 While debate continues about the most effective policies, fed-
eral, state, and local programs have begun to focus on deconcentrating
poverty by, for example, offering housing vouchers in place of public housing
complexes, incorporating into market-rate developments low-income housing
in scattered sites and redeveloping public housing projects to include
moderate-income units.
Although the term gentrification has been used positively to refer to any
community where overall income composition changes to include more higher-
income households, increasingly the term is used as a pejorative to refer to only
the negative consequences of such change.17 This leaves advocates for mixed-
income communities in a difficult bind. If any influx of higher-income house-
holds is considered gentrification and therefore harmful to the existing commu-
nity, any improvements to the neighborhood (including reductions in crime or
blight or new retail development) will inevitably make the neighborhood more
attractive to higher-income residents and result in the displacement of existing
residents. Community leaders are left to debate whether it is possible to achieve
any measure of development without displacement. 
Whereas concerns about gentrification are focused more often on residential
change than on the influx of new businesses displacing existing stores, this kind
of commercial gentrification seems to happen as well and has consequences for
the broader character of a neighborhood. Businesses serving higher-income cus-
24
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
16. None of the HUD mixed-income policies (Gautreaux and the other consent decrees
to desegregate housing, Moving to Opportunity or MTO, and HOPE VI) have had a
demonstrable positive effect on economic opportunity, as measured by employment, earn-
ings, or income of individuals. In the Gautreaux program in Chicago, the outcome for fami-
lies who moved to the suburbs was that there was no change in employment or wages (Rosen-
baum and Popkin 1991). This failure is repeated for individuals in the MTO program, every
HOPE VI study thus far completed, and even in HUD’s Welfare-to-Work Voucher Program.
Clampet-Lundquist (2004); Goering and Feins (2003); Goetz (2002); Levy and Woolley,
2007; Rubinowitz and Rosenbaum (2000); Turney and others (2006); Curley (2006). See
also Emily Holt, “The Impact of Urban Neighborhood Revitalization on the Self-Sufficiency
of Public Housing Residents” (http://hdl.handle.net/1961/4255 [2007]); Joseph (2006).
17. Freeman (2006).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 24

===== PAGE 7 =====
tomers (either new residents or outsiders attracted into the neighborhood by
businesses like art galleries or restaurants) may be able to pay higher rents than
established neighborhood businesses can, which may then be pushed out to
make way for the new businesses. This commercial transformation can itself
play a role in the process of residential change. Lance Freeman interviewed
lower-income residents in gentrifying neighborhoods in New York City who
pointed to changed or increased retail activity as a key sign of neighborhood
change.18 Some residents clearly resented the new businesses. One reported “We
don’t eat there. I went in there for a piece of cake and it was like four bucks! I
can get a whole cake for four bucks. Obviously they don’t want too many of us
in there.”19 Others welcomed the same changes, even the arrival of stores that
were clearly catering to the neighborhoods new demographic. 
“I just like the change. . . . You know, you get to see, different people, differ-
ent stores being opened . . . me and my kids, to up on DeKalb Avenue to
the different restaurants. Then we went to the sushi restaurant. My son was
like, what is this? I was like, let’s just try it, ‘cause I’ve never had it before.”20
But Freeman found that when asked about neighborhood changes, most resi-
dents, rather than commenting on the arrival of expensive stores or restaurants,
mentioned instead the return of supermarkets and drug stores. One said:
“like the new stores and shops. . . . I appreciate that. Like I know there’s a
Pathmark [grocery store] that’s opening up on 145th and 8th Avenue.
That’s like unheard of. I was really surprised at that, and then up the block
it’s Duane Reade [drugstore] opening up. ‘Cause we used to have to travel
so far just to get prescriptions filled.”21
While Freeman cites these reactions to suggest that gentrification may offer very
significant underappreciated benefits to lower-income residents, they also sug-
gest that the impact on lower-income residents may not be the same for all types
of commercial improvement. Some businesses are more likely to provide key
services for existing residents and improved economic stability, while others may
further marginalize the poor and undermine economic stability by fueling spec-
ulation and displacement. A new, upscale restaurant sends a different kind of
signal than does a new drugstore, and both are quite different from the message
that a new art school would send. 
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
25
18. Freeman (2006).
19. Freeman (2006, p.64).
20. Freeman (2006, p. 63).
21. Freeman (2006, p. 66).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 25

===== PAGE 8 =====
How Does Retail Revitalization Lead to Neighborhood Revitalization? 
One of the key debates in community development concerns the relative effec-
tiveness of place-based versus people-based strategies.22 The basic argument for
targeting place is that since most disadvantaged groups are spatially concen-
trated, programs (such as redevelopment or enterprise zones) to intervene in
these neighborhoods will have the most direct impact. But since not all locals
will benefit, and some may in fact prefer to leave the neighborhood, others
argue that community economic development programs should target the dis-
advantaged directly. Another critique of place-based economic revitalization
argues that revitalization is based on a false assumption that neighborhood-level
economic growth could have a significant impact on the well-being of low-
income, inner-city residents; because labor markets are regional, this view sees
the neighborhood’s increased participation in regional economic growth as key
to any positive future for these households.23 Others reject the need to choose
between people and place, seeing social norms and networks as the major obsta-
cles to opportunity for low-income households, making a combination of
people-based and place-based strategies necessary to repair inner-city norms and
networks.24
Policymakers typically conceptualize commercial development programs in
terms of their impact on place, rather than on its residents. But there is also an
argument that these programs can build connections to new social networks and
the regional economy. Neighborhood-based development efforts may be neces-
sary to overcome employment and investment obstacles so that neighborhood
residents can benefit from regional economic growth.25 Likewise, commercial
district strategies can help address inner-city poverty “by creating a stronger and
more positive environment for residents, promoting more social interaction and
helping to change resident self-perceptions and norms.”26
Beyond its impact on existing residents, neighborhood retail development
can have an impact on the residential composition of a neighborhood (positively
or negatively) The relationship between neighborhood-level commercial mar-
kets and residential markets in the same neighborhoods is unclear; in particular,
no research has addressed the chicken-and-egg question of whether neighbor-
hood residential revitalization leads to retail revitalization or vice versa. It is clear
that demographic changes among neighborhood residents should eventually
lead to altered retail conditions, given perfect information in the market. How-
26
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
22. For an effective reframing of the debate, see Crane and Manville (2008).
23. See, for example, Teitz (1989).
24. Dickens (1999) provides a useful review of this position.
25. Dickens (1999).
26. Seidman (2002, p. 24).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 26

===== PAGE 9 =====
ever it is also clear that the presence of retail centers or strips and the absence of
blighted commercial properties can influence the location decisions of house-
holds. Hedonic housing price models have shown that amenities play an impor-
tant role in residential location, and the literature on the back-to-the-city move-
ment also suggests that easy access to time-saving household services and retail
has led residents to value inner-city locations.27 In this way, new commercial
development can have an impact on the residential market. 
In addition to the direct impact that the presence or absence of stores has on
potential neighborhood residents, retail has an indirect impact on the overall
perception of a neighborhood. Retail strips, commercial corridors, and neigh-
borhood shopping centers serve as a kind of “front door” to any community. On
the one hand, if the strip is run down and partially abandoned, it sends a nega-
tive signal about the quality of the whole neighborhood. If, on the other hand,
the neirhborhood commercial district is improving, people are likely to see this
as a strong sign that the whole neighborhood is improving. In this sense, neigh-
borhood retail serves to signal the market about the direction and specific type
of change in a community. This signal then affects the location choices of
potential neighborhood residents and ultimately the overall composition of the
neighborhood.
Figure 2-1 summarizes the various indicators used to measure retail revitaliza-
tion, the outcomes associated with neighborhood revitalization, and the rela-
tionship between the two. With the exception of improvements to individual
well-being such as gaining employment and better health, most of these revital-
ization measures are mutually reinforcing: for instance, declining retail vacancy
rates can transform neighborhood identity, but also, transformed neighborhood
identity (due to new residents) can result in declining vacancy rates.
The Retail Gap: Myths and Realities
Porter’s article “Competitive Advantage of Inner Cities” brought wider attention
to the economic potential of inner cities. Among the competitive advantages he
identified was the relatively untapped local market demand of inner-city resi-
dents. Yet, as this section describes, there is still considerable debate over
whether this gap exists and whether it is being measured accurately, as well as
whether inner cities present significant barriers to retail development.28
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
27
27. Artz and Stone (2006); Basker (2005); Stone (1997); Civic Economics (2002); Birch
(2005); Smith (1996).
28. Porter (1995).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 27

===== PAGE 10 =====
Are Low-Income Urban Neighborhoods Underserved?
Porter noted that in inner-city Boston “spending power per acre is comparable
with the rest of the city despite a 21 percent lower average household income,”
which is due to higher average housing densities in the inner city.29 And yet, as
Porter and others noted, retail sales in inner-city areas fall far below the level of
local demand. Porter called for a new era of market-led, inner-city economic
development in which self-interested businesses would step in to take advantage
of this real market opportunity. Porter’s Initiative for a Competitive Inner City
estimates that inner cities represent a $122 billion retail market, and it finds that
inner-city residents are making one-third of their retail purchases (totalling $40
billion) outside of inner-city areas.30 A Chicago study confirmed this, finding
that its neighborhoods experienced an average leakage of 37 percent of retail
spending, with individual low-income areas leaking between 60 and 70
percent.31
How has the retail industry missed this dramatic economic opportunity? In a
2004 survey, 88 percent of retail industry professionals indicated that “insuffi-
cient concentration of your target population” was a significant barrier to devel-
opment of new retail in inner-city areas.32 While low-income households do,
28
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
29. Porter (1995).
30. Coyle (2007).
31. Weissbourd and Berry (1999).
32. International Council of Shopping Centers (2004).
Retail revitalization indicators
Neighborhood revitalization outcomes 
Declining vacancy rates
Transformed neighborhood identity
Increase in property values
New investment catalyzed
Increase in sales revenues
Higher tax revenues, new businesses
Increase in street activity
Less crime
Increase in social interaction 
  and networks
Mainstream social norms, access 
  to jobs 
Altered social norms
Attraction  of higher-income residents
Improved access to goods
  and services
Improved health
New jobs
Lower unemployment rates
Figure 2-1. Synergistic Relationship between Retail and Neighborhood
Revitalization
Source: Authors’ analysis.
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 28

===== PAGE 11 =====
obviously, have less spending power, the retail industry may be overlooking
much of the real economic potential of lower-income neighborhoods. Problems
with data collection and common methods of analysis may ultimately prove to
be a bigger barrier to inner-city development than an actual lack of spending
power on the part of low-income residents. The market power of low-income
neighborhoods is notoriously hard to evaluate for three reasons: First, the census
fails to count many households, especially low-income and immigrant house-
holds. As much as 6 percent of the population was not counted in some neigh-
borhoods in Los Angeles.33 Second, many lower-income households receive sig-
nificant income that is not reported in government data. While some of this
income comes from illegal activity, most is probably from legal but informal
activity like childcare. One study showed that families with reported incomes of
less than $10,000 per year reported spending over $25,000 on goods and serv-
ices.34 Third, because most market data are based on the decennial census, eco-
nomic forecasts often fail to reflect more recent changes in a neighborhood’s
character. A comparison of projections by market research firms for Milwaukee
neighborhoods for 1999 (projected forward from the 1990 census) with the
actual 2000 census numbers found significant discrepancies, particularly in low-
income neighborhoods.35 Several neighborhoods were shown as having rapidly
declining populations, but they turned out to be experiencing steady growth. 
Even if the underlying data were fully accurate, many urban neighborhoods
might be disadvantaged by the traditional reliance by market researchers on
indicators of economic potential that fail to account for the real economic
power of urban neighborhoods. Much of the retail industry, accustomed to sub-
urban locations, has focused on neighborhood median income rather than aggre-
gate income as a simple metric for comparing potential locations.36 Retailers
hoping to serve middle-income consumers may overlook real concentrations of
these households by focusing on the percentage of an area that is middle class
rather than on the total number of middle-class households (which may be
higher in a dense area with a low middle-class percentage than in a lower density
but predominantly middle-class area).37 Similarly, widely used “lifestyle segmen-
tation” systems such as Tapestry and PRIZM offer a shortcut for retailers hoping
to quickly understand the demographics of a given area, but often these systems
present lower-income consumers in inaccurate, biased, and dismissive terms.38
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
29
33. Ong and Houston (2002). 
34. Weissbourd and Berry (1999).
35. Pawasarat and Quinn (2001).
36. Porter (1995); Weissbourd and Berry (1999); HUD (1999).
37. International Council of Shopping Centers (2004).
38. These systems, and others like them, group an area’s diverse population into relatively
homogeneous segments on the basis of demographic traits, such as race, gender, and income,
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 29

===== PAGE 12 =====
Although much of the discussion of Porter’s inner-city work has accepted the
premise that inner-city neighborhoods are underserved, others question that
assertion.39 One study of retail location patterns in Chicago found that poor
areas are in fact home to fewer retail establishments (especially drug stores,
supermarkets, and banks), but when controlling for lower aggregate spending
power, poor areas have just as many stores per million dollars of spending power
as other parts of town. Thus, in spite of a growing concern that low-income
neighborhoods are underserved by supermarkets, these areas generally have the
number and size of supermarkets that their spending power alone would indi-
cate that they could support. However, beyond supermarkets and banks, there
are significant differences, including shortages (relative to spending power) of
large-format drug stores, clothing stores, and restaurants, as well as fewer large
stores in general. The authors conclude that this difference in retail structure is
evidence that “retailers and service providers are underserving poor areas and are
not responding to profit opportunities” but also that the situation is “not as
bleak as many would paint it.”40
In spite of the recent emphasis on better documentation of the untapped
spending power of inner-city neighborhoods, there is some evidence that the
importance of consumer demand in predicting retail locations may be over-
stated. Theodore Koebel studied the change in the number of neighborhood-
serving retail and service firms reported by the Census Bureau’s Zip Code Busi-
ness Patterns file for six cities between 1981 and 1995.41 Selecting a subset of
retail and service firms (using Standard Industial Classification, SIC, codes) that
were thought to primarily serve neighborhood markets rather than regional con-
sumer markets, he compared the growth (or decline) in the number of firms by
zip code with a very wide range of neighborhood characteristic variables and
found little correlation. Koebel’s findings are consistent with other results in
suggesting that noneconomic factors including racial discrimination contribute
more to changes in neighborhood commerce than do economic factors like pop-
ulation and income growth.42 Some of Koebel’s neighborhoods saw rising num-
bers of retail firms in spite of falling populations or falling incomes, while others
experienced drops in the number of retail firms in spite of rising incomes. 
There is also some debate about whether the fact that at least one-third of the
retail spending of lower-income communities is leaking out of these neighbor-
30
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
and attribute similar consumer preferences, hobbies, and other lifestyle traits to members of
these segments. See Pawasarat and Quinn (2001).
39. Alwitt and Donley (1997).
40. Alwitt and Donley (1997).
41. Koebel (2002).
42. Immergluck (1999).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 30

===== PAGE 13 =====
hoods should be seen as cause for concern at all. Every residential neighborhood
must experience significant leakage, and there has been little analysis of how
much leakage is normal. Because of the shift in preferences to large discount
stores, low-income consumers may not be underserved at all; instead, shoppers
of all income levels are simply driving to large-format stores outside of residen-
tial neighborhoods. However, as Kelly Clifton notes, these alternatives may not
serve the poor well because they are not only price-sensitive but also time-
sensitive; with a combination of income, time, and mobility constraints, low-
income groups may not be able to patronize stores as regularly as more affluent
clientele.43
Moreover, the retail structure of low-income communities may have public
health consequences. Although it is debatable whether these neighborhoods
have more or less retail than they can economically support, many community
advocates and researchers point to health problems associated with poor access
to fresh food as a sign that more grocery stores are needed. Many studies docu-
ment the lack of large supermarkets in low-income neighborhoods and the asso-
ciated health challenges.44 However, recent research on “food deserts” in disad-
vantaged neighborhoods has found that smaller grocery stores, many with
decent produce and prices, may substitute for supermarkets.45 A recent study
found that Latino consumers in particular were effectively meeting their fresh
food needs through small (under 3,000 square feet) full-service stores, but that
even in mixed-race neighborhoods with an adequate supply of these small
stores, African American households were not being served adequately.46 Cul-
tural differences in the patterns of consumer demand and store-type preferences
are an overlooked aspect of the “food deserts” problem. 
Ultimately, consumers themselves may be the best judges of whether their
neighborhoods are underserved. The Boston Consulting Group’s study of retail
opportunities in the inner city, for example, documents the dissatisfaction of
many residents of low-income neighborhoods with the local retail offerings in
terms of price, quality, and selection.47 In such a context, it is not surprising that
Freeman found that some residents perceived gentrification positively.48
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
31
43. Clifton (2003, 2004).
44. Chung and Myers (1999); Mari Gallaghar Research and Consulting (2006); Moore
and Diez Roux (2006).
45. Short, Guthman, and Raskin (2007); Raja, Ma, and Yadav (2008).
46. Short, Guthman, and Raskin (2007).
47. Boston Consulting Group (1988). 
48. Freeman (2006).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 31

===== PAGE 14 =====
Barriers to Retail Development
If inner-city neighborhoods are underserved, and real market opportunities
exist, why are retailers slow to return to these areas? Unmet social needs or even
untapped spending power alone are unlikely to motivate firms to open stores.
The location preferences of any given retailer will be influenced by a large list of
factors, some quite technical, beyond spending power, including 
—traffic patterns;
—the availability of suitable sites in terms of size, freeway access, and other
factors;
—the presence of compatible cotenants in a shopping center or commercial
district;
—the perception of crime;
—the cost of development or occupancy of retail space; 
—likely preferences of the local consumers for the given retailer’s brand or
products.
Many retailers have designed their store formats, their product selection and
pricing, and their overall brand identity specifically to appeal to suburban
middle-class customers. Capturing the untapped inner-city market will often
require changes to the retailer’s format or operating practices to meet the needs
of consumers with different preferences and needs. In addition, low-income
urban neighborhoods suffer from a number of unique challenges that make
retail development more difficult even for those businesses that understand the
market, in particular, the challenges and costs associated with developing large
retail projects in the inner city; quality of life issues, particularly crime; and poor
management.
Development Challenges
One commonly cited challenge for urban retail development is the relative lack
of large development sites. Most urban residential neighborhoods are made up
of many smaller lots, but current retail development patterns demand the large
sites that are much more common in suburban areas. The need expressed by
many retailers for large parking lots greatly exacerbates the challenge of finding
suitable sites. Even when assembling multiple lots into a single site is possible,
the process can add significantly to the overall cost of urban projects. Whereas
there has been some progress in convincing retailers to experiment with new
store formats that better fit into the existing urban fabric, retailers and many
consumers continue to express strong preferences for larger-format retail.49
32
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
49. International Council of Shopping Centers (2004).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 32

===== PAGE 15 =====
A study of the challenges faced by nineteen shopping center development
projects found that the most common challenges faced by the sponsoring com-
munity development corporation (CDC) were issues related to identifying
appropriate sites for new shopping centers and assembling multiple smaller
parcels for larger-scale development.50 The New Community Corporation in
Newark had to take absentee property owners to court to force the sale of
parcels that were key to the development of its center, while the Community
Development Corporation of Kansas City had to defeat plans to build a mini-
mum security prison before it could proceed with development of a shopping
center on a key parcel in its neighborhood. 
Further, developers report that retail projects in urban neighborhoods are sig-
nificantly more expensive to develop because of higher land costs, greater likeli-
hood of environmental contamination, more frequent community opposition,
more complex planning and zoning regulations, and higher wages.51
Crime and Cleanliness
A 2004 survey of retail professionals found widespread agreement within the
industry regarding the most significant barriers to new retail development in
underserved markets.52 The most commonly identified barrier, cited by 93 per-
cent of respondents, was crime and the perception of crime. High crime rates
impact business operating costs through the direct cost of theft and the higher
associated security costs; but perhaps more important, high crime makes it
harder to attract customers. And even areas with relatively modest actual crime
rates often suffer from a misperception that they are high crime areas. Retailers
recognize that even when they are wrong, these perceptions affect shopping
behavior. 
The “broken windows” theory suggested that people’s sense of safety is not so
directly connected to the crime rate as it is to the overall level of public order.53
Factors such as the cleanliness of streets and sidewalks, the condition of public
infrastructure, the presence or absence of graffiti, and dozens of other small fac-
tors may have a large influence over which retail locations consumers choose.
Whether or not they suffer from high crime rates, urban neighborhods often
suffer from lack of investment in the streetscape, buildings, and other physical
infrastructure and insufficient maintenance and cleanliness efforts. Overcoming
these conditions may, in some cases, be more difficult than reducing the crime
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
33
50. Abell (2002). 
51. International Council of Shopping Centers (2004).
52. International Council of Shopping Centers (2004).
53. Wilson and Kelling (1982).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 33

===== PAGE 16 =====
rate because they require changing the behavior of many public and private
actors and changing social norms on the street.54
Management Factors
Management issues, from poor skills to other complications, also create barriers
to retail development. Many of the retail businesses serving low-income com-
munities suffer from a lack of management capacity and difficulties accessing
financing and supplier networks.55 Immigrant and low-income entrepreneurs
are less likely to succeed in part because they have lower levels of education and
prior business experience, as well as less capital to invest in the business.56
Retailers also point to higher than average operating costs for inner-city
stores due to factors such as higher tax rates, higher insurance costs, greater
security costs, and losses due to theft.57 Higher average operating costs mean
that many types of inner-city stores must rely on a greater than average sales vol-
ume to be profitable. As a result, inner-city commercial strips generally offer a
limited variety of stores frequently offering lower-quality goods, less customer
service, and higher prices—and they are less likely to survive.58
Strategies to Promote Neighborhood Retail Development
Local governments and community-based organizations that want to strengthen
neighborhood retail markets undertake a wide range of strategies These include
commercial real estate development projects supported by the public sector
through direct financing or various tax incentives, market-led development
strategies that rely on market research and promotion to attract new retailers to
underserved areas, and coordinated commercial revitalization programs that
combine business attraction with softer activities such as safety and cleanliness
efforts, consumer marketing, business assistance, and smaller-scale improve-
ments to the physical infrastructure.
Public-Led Commercial Development 
The most direct intervention in neighborhood retail markets is simply to
develop new commercial real estate projects. Retail development projects range
from supermarket-anchored neighborhood shopping centers to smaller-scale
“infill” retail development including ground-floor retail space developed in
34
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
54. Hoyt (2005).
55. Rauch (1996).
56. Bates (1997).
57. Initiative for a Competitive Inner City (2002).
58. Loukaitou-Sideris (2000).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 34

===== PAGE 17 =====
mixed-use projects with housing above. A recent trend has been transit-oriented
development projects that combine higher-density housing and retail around
transit stations. These projects are frequently referred to as “catalysts” of further
neighborhood development, with the expectation being that public investment
in one or more key initial projects will lead to greatly increased private (unsubsi-
dized) development activity. There is often an unstated expectation that these
projects will generate jobs for neighborhood residents, offer key services to resi-
dents, and improve neighborhood safety and contribute to other quality-of-life
factors. 
Local governments frequently provide grants, subsidized loans, or tax or reg-
ulatory incentives to encourage development of new commercial real estate proj-
ects by private or nonprofit developers. A recent survey of planners working for
thirty-two local government agencies in major U.S. cities asked about efforts to
attract retail (especially supermarkets) to inner-city neighborhoods.59 Thirteen
of these cities offered some kind of financial incentives to supermarket develop-
ers; ten offered fast-track permitting, fee waivers, or parking or public safety
assistance; and seven conducted or paid for market studies to help attract retail-
ers to target sites. Another key form of local government assistance for commer-
cial development is site assembly. A number of public agencies have undertaken
the complex task of assembling several smaller parcels into a large enough site to
attract outside retail developers into urban neighborhoods. This approach
reduces the risk and the cost that the shopping center developer would other-
wise face alone.60
Often local governments turn to CDCs to manage the development of
neighborhood shopping centers or other retail projects designed to respond to
unmet retail demand and catalyze neighborhood revitalization.61 Several studies
of CDC development have attempted to gauge the extent of this type of com-
mercial development, with the most recent finding that 62 percent of CDCs
were engaged in commercial real estate activity.62
Historically local governments relied on urban development action grants to
fund commercial development, but since that program was terminated, they
have used a variety of local and federal sources to fund these projects.63 In 2002
an Urban Institute study found that local governments used Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) block grant funds to make or guar-
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
35
59. Pothukuchi (2005).
60. Abell (2002).
61. Abell (1998).
62. Gross (2005). Servon and Melendez (2006) found that 46 percent of CDCs were
involved in commercial real estate development, while 72 percent conducted commercial
rehab activity.
63. Abell (2002). 
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 35

===== PAGE 18 =====
antee $2.2 billion in loans to private businesses during the second half of the
1990s. The majority of this loan volume was made through the Section 108
loan guarantee program, which allows local governments to provide 100 percent
loan guarantees for economic development projects with any future loan losses
repaid from the community’s annual Community Development Block Grant
(CDBG) funds. Local governments frequently use Section 108 loans to facilitate
larger business development or commercial real estate development projects. Of
the Section 108 loans, 18 percent went to retail businesses and 32 percent to
service businesses.64 Many projects also benefit from tax incentives of some
kind.
Redevelopment and tax increment financing. Redevelopment typically occurs
through tax increment financing (TIF), which spread across the country in the
wake of the urban fiscal crises of the 1970s, and is now utilized in forty-nine
states and the District of Columbia. TIF allows redevelopment agencies to use
the projected additional property taxes to be generated by redevelopment to
finance certain development costs within a designated district. Cost-benefit
analyses generally find positive results for TIF, with its primary benefit being its
ability to finance infrastructure development.65
EZ-EC programs. Federal and state enterprise zones (EZ) and empowerment
communities (EC) generally provide a set of tax incentives to encourage busi-
nesses to locate in targeted disinvested areas and hire local residents. While these
programs generally do not focus primarily on retail businesses, many include
retail development as one of several goals. Overall the impact of these programs
has been mixed at best with several studies demonstrating that the designated
EZ-EC zones did not experience greater reduction in unemployment, more job
creation or business growth, or a greater reduction in poverty than that experi-
enced by comparison areas.66 When enterprise zones are successful, they are typ-
ically located in neighborhoods that are still economically viable and have a sub-
stantial manufacturing component.67
Historic Preservation Tax Credits. Enacted in 1976, the federal Historic Preser-
vation Tax Incentives program offers a 20 percent tax credit for private investors
rehabbing historic properties. Many states have enacted their own tax credit
program to supplement the federal incentive. The literature suggests that these
credits (and historic preservation in general) have a strong positive impact and
multiplier effect, but measurement of that is complicated.68
36
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
64. Walker and others (2002).
65. Johnson and Man (2001).
66. Oakley and Tsao (2006); GAO (2006); Rich and Stoker (2007); Eisinger (1988).
67. Wilder and Rubin (1988), Dowall and others (1994).
68. For a review, see Mason (2005).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 36

===== PAGE 19 =====
New Markets Tax Credits. More recently the New Markets Tax Credit
(NMTC) program has used tax policy to provide federal subsidies to induce pri-
vate investment in targeted low-income areas. However, unlike the EZ-EC
incentives that generally benefit employers, the NMTC credits are given to
investors in qualified businesses. The result may be a closer correspondence
between federal subsidy and private market activity—in other words, more of a
market-led approach. By the beginning of 2007, the NMTC program had led
to the investment of about $5.3 billion.69 Although the tax credits can be used
to fund business loans, industrial facilities, and many other eligible uses, the
majority of this investment to date seems to have been directed toward commer-
cial real estate projects, especially those in retail.70 While it is too soon to gauge
the economic impact of this investment in urban communities, the Govern-
ment Accountability Office’s (GAO) initial report on the program suggests that,
at a minimum, the program is spurring new investment and shifting resources
away from less needy areas.71 Yet, there may be a mismatch between lengthy
development processes and the relatively quick turnaround required for NMTC
projects. As a result, this funding may go to projects already in the pipeline
rather than to projects that would not have happened but for the funding. The
Department of the Treasury is tracking direct impacts such as the volume and
type of investment, but Treasury is also interested in indirect neighborhood
impacts such as increases in employment, increases in property values, and
access to needed services.
Market-Led Business Attraction
Porter lamented the slow progress of publicly led retail development and called
on local government to “shift its focus from direct involvement and intervention
to creating a favorable environment for business.”72 Porter’s work contributed to
a growing sense that government subsidies might be part of the problem and
that more commercial development might result if the neighborhoods were pro-
moted on the basis of their assets rather than their liabilities. Expanding on
Porter’s work, researchers began documenting the dramatic market opportuni-
ties that were being overlooked by retailers.73 The potential of this new approach
was seen as so significant that two separate organizations were launched to focus
primarily on developing new tools to help retailers identify market opportuni-
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
37
69. GAO (2007).
70. New Markets Tax Credit, “New Markets Tax Credits Progress Report 2007”
(www..newmarketstaxcreditcoalition.org/reportsETC/newfiles/2007%20NMTC%20Pro-
gres%20Report%20-%20Final.pdf [2007]). 
71. GAO (2007).
72. Porter (1995).
73. Weissbourd and Berry (1999); HUD (1999).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 37

===== PAGE 20 =====
ties in underserved inner cities. MetroEdge, founded as a subsidiary of Shore-
bank and later sold to the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, focused on
developing new metrics that would represent the real spending power in urban
neighborhoods more accurately. For example, when traditional market analysis
focused on the median income, MetroEdge encouraged retailers to look instead
at total spending per square mile. The other firm, Social Compact, developed
new tools for identifying undocumented spending resulting from inaccurate
government statistics or informal economic activity. The unstated assumption
behind these two programs seems to be that better information about the real
market opportunities in underserved neighborhoods will encourage developers
to build new projects and retailers to open new stores for reasons of their own
self-interest. These new projects and stores would then be expected to have the
same kinds of community impacts as the government-led commercial real estate
projects. But where government-subsidized projects might reinforce the idea
that a neighborhood is not ready for private investment, market-led develop-
ment projects might be more likely to catalyze further private investment
because they would signal to other developers and retailers that these markets
could be profitable on their own. 
Over the past decade, MetroEdge and Social Compact, together with Porter’s
own Initiative for a Competitive Inner City (ICIC), have produced a steady
stream of reports that have called attention to the spending power of inner-city
neighborhoods in one city after another. The reports regularly receive media
attention and renewed calls for retailers to take a closer look at the business
opportunities in these areas. While this market-led approach has successfully
realigned the philanthropic, and to a lesser extent municipal, strategy toward
these neighborhoods, it has yet to affect retailer behavior dramatically. A 2006
study by ICIC found that the gap between retail supply and retail demand in
inner-city neighborhoods in 100 of the largest U.S. cities has “remained approx-
imately the same for the past decade.”74 However, ICIC found dramatic differ-
ences between cities, with some experiencing 30 to 50 percent growth in retail
jobs in inner-city neighborhoods during the decade while others experienced
comparable declines. ICIC attributes this difference in part to the fact that “sev-
eral cities with aggressive entrepreneurial mayors developed strategies for attract-
ing retail establishments” and concludes that “national retailers, impressed with
market data and the absence of competition, moved more confidently to open
branches in select cities.”75
38
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
74. Coyle (2007, p. 1).
75. Coyle (2007, p. 9). However, a brief review of the websites of Social Compact,
MetroEdge, and ICIC indicates that, of the cities that have been the focus of inner-city market
research, just as many fall into the group that Coyle identified as experiencing retail declines. 
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 38

===== PAGE 21 =====
The city of Indianapolis developed a “minimalist” program that followed
Porter’s approach by identifying sites for retail development, researching
untapped spending power, and organizing local public and private sector actors
to promote these opportunities. A study suggests that the effort would have
been more likely to succeed if the city had identified public sector resources to
help offset some of the increased cost of inner-city locations.76 Several commu-
nities have developed more intensive programs to coordinate outreach to retail-
ers in an effort to bring new stores into existing or planned private develop-
ments in target neighborhoods.77 These programs are frequently developed
alongside programs to support commercial real estate development. Retail
Chicago is perhaps the premier example of this type of program. Staff of Retail
Chicago serve as a one-stop resource for retailers interested in locating in
Chicago’s disinvested neighborhoods. The agency contracts with LISC
MetroEdge to compile market data about the target neighborhoods, maintains a
list of opportunity sites, organizes annual retailer tours, and markets inner-city
retail opportunities through national and regional retail trade conventions. The
program also coordinates a suite of city incentives and support programs
designed to reduce the cost of opening new stores in the targeted neighbor-
hoods. Other cities that have used retail attraction successfully are Rochester,
New York, and Dallas.78
One assumption underlying this approach is that inner-city markets are
growing. And in fact, a growing literature demonstrates how an influx of immi-
grants can revitalize retail, by providing both new entrepreneurs and markets.79
However, while ICIC found that most of the inner-city areas that experienced
retail growth also experienced population growth and increased household den-
sity, it identified a few cities with declining inner-city populations that nonethe-
less managed net growth in inner-city retail jobs. Deirdre Coyle points to
Columbus, Ohio, and its “aggressive initiative to build a retail destination and
attract retailers” as accounting for that city’s retail growth in the face of declining
inner-city population.80 However, she notes that rather than simply promoting
the untapped market potential to retailers and developers, as many cities do,
Columbus also committed to locating a government building at the site, assem-
bled parcels, offered financing for the developers, and streamlined permitting.
The result was that between 1995 and 2003 Columbus’s inner-city areas experi-
enced an 8 percent increase in retail sales and a 14 percent increase in retail sec-
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
39
76. Nunn (2001).
77. Including Indianapolis under a subsequent administration (see www.focusindy.com).
78. Pothukuchi (2005).
79. Ball (2002); Min and Bozorgmehr (2000).
80. Coyle (2007).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 39

===== PAGE 22 =====
tor employment in spite of a 3 percent drop in population. This may indicate
that market-led business attraction works best when accompanied by either
strong population growth (often led by immigrants) or very significant public
sector investment. 
Commercial District Revitalization Programs 
Comprehensive efforts to improve the strength of existing commercial districts
have become increasingly popular. Either together with or instead of building
new shopping centers, these programs attempt to revive the historical pattern of
neighborhood-serving retail—generally small-format retail arranged along
major arterials and accessed on foot with adjacent on-street parking or district-
oriented public parking lots. A large number of these programs are organized
according to the National Trust for Historic Preservation’s Main Street model.81
The Main Street model involves committees of local merchants, residents, prop-
erty owners, and other stakeholders undertaking a long-term, coordinated strat-
egy for district revitalization including design, promotions, economic restruc-
turing, and organizing. There are currently more than 1,200 active Main Street
programs across the country. Although the vast majority of these programs focus
on downtowns of smaller cities, a growing minority of Main Street programs are
focused on revitalization of urban neighborhoods. An evaluation of seven Main
Street programs found that the successful programs had adapted the traditional
model to the local context; of interest, it found that a program was most effec-
tive when the local government played a proactive role and also provided finan-
cial support for large-scale infrastructure or development projects.82
Many, but not all, Business Improvement Districts (BIDs) operate similarly
comprehensive programs. BIDs are special tax assessment districts that are
formed to provide special services to targeted districts. The property owners (or
sometimes the businesses themselves) pay the special assessment and have the
right to participate in governance of the BID, which then generally uses the
funds to pay for additional public safety, cleanliness, or promotional services
that benefit the entire district. BIDs are still rare in underserved urban neigh-
borhoods but are becoming more common. In general, although BIDs are con-
sidered effective, studies have not focused on BIDs in low-income areas.83 One
exception is a study of New York’s forty-one Business Improvement Districts, of
which ten serve predominantly low-income neighborhoods.84 These BIDS,
however, tended to be less well funded and offered significantly less comprehen-
40
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
81. Seidman (2004).
82. Seidman (2003).
83. Houstoun (2004); Mitchell (2003).
84. Gross (2005).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 40

===== PAGE 23 =====
sive services, with most focusing exclusively on district upkeep and maintenance
rather than on the promotion and capital improvement activities common in
higher-income BIDs. 
A number of CDCs have undertaken comprehensive commercial district
revitalization programs as well. Some of these CDC programs follow the Main
Street model, while others are organized as BIDs, but many are less formally
structured. LISC has supported several dozen CDC commercial revitalization
programs throughout the country.85 Whether or not they are formally recog-
nized as Main Street programs, CDC revitalization programs tend to be more
focused on crime and safety and to use commercial real estate development as a
key strategy than non-CDC programs.86
The specific activities undertaken by any individual BID, Main Street Pro-
gram, or CDC-led revitalization program will depend largely on local circum-
stances and priorities. Commercial revitalization programs frequently make
improvements like new street lighting, benches, trash receptacles, bicycle racks,
sidewalks, curbing, street trees, bus shelters, entryways, signage, banners,
murals, and pedestrian signage. These programs also undertake efforts to
improve code enforcement against property owners with blighted properties, to
remove grafitti in a timely manner, and to increase neighborhood greenspace.
Some programs offer façade improvement loans or grants to merchants or prop-
erty owners to make physical improvements to the exterior of their street-front
retail spaces. These programs frequently require some level of matching financial
commitment from the merchant or property owner. Less common, some com-
munities operate tenant improvement loan or grant programs that help finance
the cost of custom build-outs of retail space in targeted revitalization areas. 
Crime is a major barrier to retail success in inner-city locations, and commer-
cial revitalization programs frequently invest significant resources to reduce the
level of crime and, just as important, to change the perception of safety on the
part of customers and merchants by taking actions such as hiring private secu-
rity firms or safety ambassadors to patrol the sidewalks, removing payphones
used in drug trade, installing security cameras, organizing merchants, and
implementing principles of “defensible space.”87 Lorlene Hoyt argues that in
addition to direct safety activities like these, investments such as streetscape
improvements, façade improvements, and increased street cleaning also have a
direct impact on crime rates.88
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
41
85. Carlson (2003).
86. Carlson (2003).
87. International Council of Shopping Centers (2004); Houstoun (2004); Stokes (2007);
Carlson (2003); Seidman (2004).
88. Hoyt (2005).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 41

===== PAGE 24 =====
Many revitalization programs also organize promotional activities intended
to change consumer perceptions of the commercial district. Three-fourths of
BIDs in one study reported conducting direct consumer marketing programs on
behalf of district businesses—their most common activity.89 However, a study of
BIDS in lower-income areas found that they tended to focus their more limited
marketing budgets on promoting special events, while BIDS in higher-income
areas invested in broader marketing efforts to alter the identity of the district.90
Another study found that urban main street districts have difficulty identifying
a unique image that differentiates them from other areas.91 Nonetheless many
urban main street programs have succeeded in significantly changing percep-
tions and increasing sales through conscious branding programs.92
Many commercial corridor programs offer resources for improving and
expanding existing retail businesses. These programs include training for business
operators, assistance in accessing financing, and real estate search assistance. A
recent large-scale survey of CDCs found that 65 percent had worked in the busi-
ness enterprise development area.93 Karl Seidman evaluated ten CDC-led busi-
ness assistance programs participating in Boston’s Community Business Network
and found that, though most did not focus on specific commercial districts, sev-
eral programs targeted Boston Main Street districts, and many businesses receiv-
ing assistance reported participating in district revitalization programs.94
Measuring the Impact of Retail Development Programs
Although the retail development approaches described above are quite different
in scope and scale, they generally share a common underlying set of goals. Each
of these strategies seeks to increase the level of retail activity in targeted under-
served neighborhoods. Public-led commercial development and market-led
business attraction both focus on bringing in new catalyst real estate projects
with new stores; in contrast, the revitalization programs generally seek more
incremental change, improving the quality and competitiveness of existing busi-
nesses and attracting new stores to fill existing vacancies. But in either case,
expanded retail activity is likely to be seen as a means to a broader set of changes
in the neighborhood as a whole. There is, however, very little agreement about
how to measure the impact of these projects and programs on neighborhood
revitalization and probably even about what kind of neighborhood change
42
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
89. Mitchell (2003).
90. Gross (2005).
91. Dane(1988).
92. Jacobus and Hickey (2007).
93. Servon and Melendez (2006).
94. Seidman (1999).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 42

===== PAGE 25 =====
would be considered desirable. For the most part, evaluations have focused
instead on documenting the impact of the projects on a set of intermediate indi-
cators including job creation, tax revenue, new investment, higher property val-
ues, additional services for neighborhood residents, access to healthy food and
other essential goods, reduced crime, improved perception of the neighborhood,
and increased neighborhood pride. Studies have not attempted to draw direct
connections between any of these indicators and overall neighborhood change,
although the implication generally seems to be that changes in these factors
should lead to other (presumably positive) changes in the neighborhood. 
However, if retail growth in one neighborhood is indeed associated with a
decline in nearby areas, then this focus on intermediate indicators may be prob-
lematic. Studies have generally neglected to look at the impact of these projects
within a citywide or regional context or to evaluate whether job growth, crime
reduction, and other outcomes in the target neighborhoods are associated with
corresponding changes in neighboring districts.95 This kind of interneighbor-
hood transfer or geographic spillover would not necessarily undermine the claim
that retail development is contributing to neighborhood revitalization, but it
would suggest the need for better measures of neighborhood-level impact. Cur-
rently, while it is possible to evaluate whether these strategies create jobs or
reduce crime, it is hard to know whether those limited changes add up to mean-
ingful change in the overall health, attractiveness, or competitiveness of a
neighborhood—or whether these strategies actually benefit existing neighbor-
hood residents. 
Job Creation
The Urban Institute study of HUD-funded local economic development loans
found that only 56 percent of CDBG-funded borrowers and 52 percent of Sec-
tion 108–supported borrowers met or exceeded their job creation goals. How-
ever, since a small number of borrowers exceeded their job creation goals by
large margins, overall, the total number of jobs created by all HUD-funded
loans amounted to 93 percent of the combined job creation goals. The same
report found that the Section 108 program generated one new job for every
$38,000 lent. By comparing Section 108 loan terms with prevailing private
market loans, the researchers estimated that these below-market loans repre-
sented an average public subsidy of approximately $7,865 per job. Although
considerably lower than the cost per job of tax incentives provided to corpora-
tions, this is considerably higher than the average grant per job created by other
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
43
95. Even studies of enterprise zones, which compare the zones with comparable nonzones,
generally do not discuss whether the different outcomes are due to shifts in activity between
these areas.
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 43

===== PAGE 26 =====
federal programs identified in similar studies.96 Furthermore, the study showed
that jobs created by Section 108 loans in high-poverty neighborhoods required
25 percent more subsidy per job than those created by loans outside high-
poverty areas.97
Many financing programs, such as TIF, do not evaluate job creation out-
comes. A number of case studies have shown, though, that new supermarket
development projects have led to the creation of significant numbers of new
jobs and that neighborhood residents are frequently able to fill the majority of
these new jobs.98 In addition to the direct employment created in the new
stores, retail development is likely to have some multiplier effect, stimulating
local economic activity that results in additional neighborhood jobs beyond the
new retail development.99 Yet, there has been little research on the extent of this
multiplier effect for neighborhood retail development. 
Studies of empowerment zones have found few positive employment effects.
In a study of six cities with federal empowerment zones, the only city whose
zone neighborhoods had a significantly different outcome than the correspon-
ding control group was New York City; the New York census tracts fared worse
in reducing unemployment than the control group counterparts.100 These and
other studies have long found that the hiring tax credits are ineffective, because
of unwillingness of employers to alter their hiring habits, and a more recent
study of California empowerment zones detailed the abuse of the hiring tax
credit, which rarely goes to disadvantaged workers.101
Many commercial district revitalization programs also attempt to track job
creation outcomes. This is difficult because of the large number of businesses
that must be contacted. Seidman found that the average urban Main Street pro-
gram generated 38 net new jobs per year, a total which was comparable with the
national average for Main Street programs outside of urban areas considered
successful.102 LISC documented 1,490 net new jobs created by its six pilot
neighborhood Main Street programs over a four-year period—an average of 62
jobs per district per year.103 Studying the results of new Main Street programs in
Boston between 1996 and 2000, Seidman found wide variation in the total
44
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
96. Markusen (2007).
97. Walker and others (2002). 
98. Abell (1998); Food Marketing Institute (1993).
99. Dixon (2005).
100. Rich and Stoker (2007).
101. California Budget Project. “California’s Enterprise Zones Miss the Mark”
(www.cbp.org/pdfs/2006/0604_ezreport.pdf [2006]).
102. Seidman (2004).
103. Carlson (2003).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 44

===== PAGE 27 =====
number of jobs created, with the Hyde Park program generating 166 net new
jobs while the Hyde/Jackson Square program created only six.104
Whether they are created by new real estate development or revitalization
programs, it is likely that some of these jobs are being filled by neighborhood
residents.105 A 2000 study of the economic impact of the Fruitvale Main Street
program in Oakland, California, found that 58 percent of district retail employ-
ees lived in the immediate neighborhood.106 Neighborhood retail jobs are less
than ideal, however: not only do they pay low wages and rely on part-time or
temporary workers, but retailers offer the least on-the-job training of any busi-
ness sector and offer relatively few supervisor positions, thus failing to facilitate
upward mobility.107 Nevertheless, they may serve as an entry point to the work-
force for young or discouraged workers, and they provide key work experience,
which leads to better jobs later. The Initiative for a Competitive Inner City cites
lower employee turnover in inner-city retail stores as an advantage for businesses
but low turnover may also occur because employees in these stores are using
these opportunities as permanent career jobs instead of moving up.108 Further
research is needed to determine the extent to which neighborhood residents are
moving successfully from local retail jobs into other career paths.
Vacancy Rates
A common goal of commercial development programs is to fill vacant commer-
cial space. Despite this, it appears that comprehensive data have not been col-
lected on the impact of new commercial real estate development projects on
occupancy rates of surrounding commercial properties.
Commercial district revitalization programs, however, seem to have had more
success in evaluating their impact. Jerry Mitchell conducted a survey of BID
managers and found that the majority (55 percent) of BIDs are tracking vacancy
and occupancy rates, which is the most frequently used benchmark for BID suc-
cess.109 Suzanne Dane’s report on Main Street programs (mostly in rural areas)
documented an average decline in vacancy rates from 21 percent to only 5 per-
cent over a nine-year period.110 Seidman studied the reported results of fourteen
urban Main Street programs and found an average of eight net new businesses
were created each year in the Main Street districts.111 Seidman’s earlier study of
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
45
104. Seidman (2001).
105. Abel (2002); Dunford (2006).
106. Marketek (2000).
107. Bernhardt (1999).
108. Initiative for a Competitive Inner City (2002).
109. Mitchell (2003). 
110. Dane (1988).
111. Seidman (2004).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 45

===== PAGE 28 =====
Boston Main Street programs found that between 55 and 88 percent of busi-
nesses reported that the Main Street program had improved their performance.112
During the first four years of the Main Street pilot in Oakland’s Fruitvale neigh-
borhood, ground-floor, street-front commercial vacancy rates declined from 12
percent to less than 1 percent.113
Private Investment
Investment of public or charitable resources into retail development projects or
programs is thought to lead to greater private investment in the same areas.
Commercial real estate projects are frequently referred to as catalysts, with the
implication being that one or two key projects with public subsidy can lead to a
self-sustaining process of private reinvestment in distressed neighborhoods.
Commercial corridor programs similarly describe increased private investment
as a likely outcome of activities such as street cleaning, façade improvement, and
safety improvements. 
Of commercial district programs, one study showed that formation of a BID
in Maplewood, New Jersey, led to a significant increase in private building per-
mit activity.114 Seidman found that successful urban Main Street programs had
similar effects and generated an average of $1 million in public and private
investment each year.115 Much of this investment was associated with building
projects ranging from major renovations to minor storefront improvements. Sei-
dman found that urban Main Street districts experienced an average of eleven
such projects per year. Between 1996 and 2000, LISC and the National Main
Street Center undertook a pilot Neighborhood Main Street Initiative that
involved an investment of just over $3 million to create and sustain six new
urban Main Street programs. During a four-year period, these demonstration
sites closely tracked outcomes and documented more than $35 million in new
public and private investment in the target areas. One site, Frankford Avenue in
Philadelphia, generated nearly $10 million in private investment as a result of
thirty new businesses that opened on the avenue during this time.116
For commercial real estate development projects, tracking of the impact on
investment in surrounding properties is uncommon. Yet, there have been several
studies that have shown that direct public investment in these projects leverages
significant private investment in the same projects.117 But the type of investment
matters. For instance, in the survey of local government supermarket attraction
46
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
112. Seidman (2001).
113. Marketek (2000).
114. Seidman (2004).
115. Seidman (2004).
116. Carlson (2003).
117. Walker and others (2002); GAO (2007).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 46

===== PAGE 29 =====
programs, twelve of the nineteen cities with EZ or EC designations reported
efforts to attract new supermarkets, but only three targeted those efforts within
the EZ-EC boundaries. These three (Buffalo, Atlanta, and Bridgeport, Con-
necticut) all reported no success in leveraging EZ-EC resources to attract new
supermarket development.118
Historic preservation is generally thought to leverage private investment. Yet,
while historic district designation has been associated with large increases in res-
idential property values, there is apparently no correlation between historic dis-
trict designation and increased commercial property values.119 That may be due
to any number of factors and seems to suggest that even the relatively more gen-
erous historic preservation tax credits are not sufficient to generate significant
increases in economic activity or dramatically alter the location decision of most
private businesses. But preservation tax credits, when combined with a Main
Street program, do seem to have a significant impact.120
Public Investment
Urban neighborhoods compete for attention and support from local govern-
ment. Commercial revitalization advocates argue that increased attention and
organization at the community level combined with increased private invest-
ment should result in increased investment on the part of local governments. A
key function of BIDs is their ability to “negotiate with politicians and munici-
palities on behalf of business owners” and “work to garner additional ser-
vices.”121 Among Main Street programs nationwide (mostly in rural towns), only
37 percent report that the program led to increased investment in the district by
local government; but LISC’s evaluation of its Neighborhood Main Street Ini-
tiative and Seidman’s evaluation of Boston’s Main Streets Program both suggest
that urban Main Street programs are far more likely to succeed in increasing
service levels and public capital investment.122 This may be due to the fact that
urban commercial revitalization programs are unlikely to be launched at all in
the absence of political support from local government. 
Tax Revenue
Successful commercial development should result in immediate increases in
local sales tax revenue and longer-term increases in property tax revenue, from
the development project and from the surrounding properties. Apart from an
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
47
118. Pothukuchi (2005).
119. Asabere and Huffman (1991).
120. Listokin, Listokin, and Lahr (1998). 
121. Hoyt (2005).
122. Carlson (2003); Seidman (2001).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 47

===== PAGE 30 =====
evaluation of the Faneuil Hall project in Boston, which found significant but
very small positive changes in land prices and rents in the vicinity of the project,
there is only very anecdotal evidence for this positive impact of commercial real
estate development projects on property values and sales in the surrounding dis-
trict.123 One study found, for example, that a new Stop & Shop supermarket in
the Hyde/Jackson Square neighborhood attracted new shoppers, raised rents,
and led to increased sales by nearby businesses—including increased sales for
half of the existing independent grocery and convenience stores.124
Studies of redevelopment typically measure impact in terms of property val-
ues (and tax revenues), finding that TIFs generally cause growth beyond what
would be expected in the absence of redevelopment finance.125 However, critics
charge that TIF districts generally fail to generate enough revenue to pay back
for the lost property tax revenue and that the programs fail to reimburse local
governments adequately for lost revenue.126
By contrast, commercial district revitalization programs have repeatedly doc-
umented positive impacts on districtwide sales and sales tax receipts. A study of
California Main Street programs (mostly in rural areas) found that during a
period when statewide sales taxes increased by 77 percent, the sixteen Main
Street districts increased tax revenues by an average of 105 percent.127 Surpris-
ingly, only 19 percent of BIDs reported tracking taxable retail sales as a bench-
mark of BID success.128 Nonetheless, many BIDs report increased sales tax rev-
enue as a result of BID activity. In Boston’s Hyde Park Main Street district, for
example, 40 percent of businesses reported that their sales increased by 25 per-
cent or more during the first five years of that program.129 It is unknown
whether these increases were accompanied by decreases in neighboring districts.
Crime and Safety
By increasing capital investment, removing blight, and improving cleanliness,
commercial corridor programs are thought to reduce the liklihood of crime.
And in fact, a study of BIDs in Philadelphia found that, relative to comparison
neighborhoods, the BID areas experienced fewer crimes and, in particular, fewer
thefts and other property crimes or crimes that typically would be directed at
retail district visitors.130 Commercial development projects may also have a posi-
48
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
123. Sagalyn (1989).
124. Hernandez (2001) cited in Seidman (2002).
125. Dardia (1998); Johnson and Man (2001).
126. Dardia (1998); Weber (2003).
127. Kelley (1996).
128. Mitchell (2003).
129. Seidman (2001).
130. Hoyt (2005).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 48

===== PAGE 31 =====
tive impact on crime rates in the surrounding areas because of the presence of
paid security and as a result of additional “eyes on the street,” but there appears
to be no research into this aspect of these projects. 
Some BID critics have suggested that crime reductions in BID districts are
not due to actual reductions in overall crime but are merely the result of crime
moving to other areas, another reason why establishing a regional unit of analy-
sis is needed.131 This is an important point but one which has been scarcely
studied. If crime reduction is itself a goal, then such a finding would undermine
some of the value of commercial district programs. However, if crime preven-
tion is seen as a means to the end of improving the relative competitiveness of a
given commercial district or neighborhood, then even relocating crimes might
be considered evidence of neighborhood revitalization. 
Community Identity
Commercial revitalization may reshape community identity in two ways: indi-
vidual or neighborhood. Recent work on the sociology of social exclusion may
shed some light on how neighborhood retail development might affect resident
self-perception. Retail exclusion also has important implications for self-
identity.132 Shopping is increasingly seen as a means of self-expression and as a
tool for constructing a personal identity. Consumers who are unable to partici-
pate in this aspect of our culture may define themselves as “excluded shoppers.”
Even consumers with enough income to purchase essential goods may come to
see themselves as being excluded because of the mode through which they pur-
chase. In a situation when goods were acquired informally, the consumer would
have preferred to purchase from a traditional retailer but was unable to do so
because of cost and the inaccessibility of retail stores.133
Many urban consumers are either discouraged from accessing stores outside
their neighborhood or feel uncomfortable in these environments.134 Social
exclusion works in both directions to disadvantage lower-income communities:
low-income residents, minorities, the youth, and seniors may all feel unwelcome
in mainstream stores outside their neighborhood, and similarly, outsiders are
less likely to patronize stores in inner-city communities because of the presence
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
49
131. Briffault (1999).
132. Williams and Windebank (2002).
133. This section is based on research by Williams and Windebank (2002), who con-
ducted in-depth interviews with 400 consumers in low-income neighborhoods about their
methods of acquiring various essential household goods and found that a large number of
these consumers are purchasing products such as TVs, cars, clothing, and furniture through
informal channels or secondhand stores rather than through traditional retail outlets. 
134. Turner (2004).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 49

===== PAGE 32 =====
of these groups.135 In this sense the retail patterns in lower-income communities
may have social implications beyond the purely economic factors that are typi-
cally considered. 
However, many commercial development programs point to changes in the
neighborhood’s identity as a key outcome. Many Main Street programs and
BIDs regularly measure consumer perceptions of the commercial district and
document improvements over time.136 To the extent that successful retail devel-
opment requires overcoming this kind of self-segregating behavior on the part of
consumers, these programs can be seen as affecting not only neighborhood
identity but individual self-identity. 
Overall, this review of retail strategies and their impact suggests that com-
mercial district revitalization strategies have a demonstrably positive effect on
retail revitalization. Less is known about the effectiveness of public-led commer-
cial development and market-led retail attraction strategies (see table 2-1). In
terms of the impact of these strategies on neighborhood revitalization, we can
really only speculate, since there is very little evidence. In general, it seems that
leveraging public investment is key no matter which strategy is followed. Com-
mercial district revitalization programs are the most promising in terms of
improving neighborhoods, perhaps because they focus more directly on quality-
of-life issues such as crime. This example suggests the importance of incorporat-
ing desired outcomes into program design. If crime is a major obstacle to busi-
ness attraction, then attraction programs should include security as a design
feature. Although the business cycle will affect the ability of programs to achieve
some outcomes, such as reductions in vacancy rates and increases in property tax
revenue, policymakers can clearly design programs to be more effective. They
can easily build incentives into programs to leverage more private or public
investment, by requiring matching funding. They can also help spur more job
creation for local residents, for example, by requiring local hires or partnering
with job training or apprenticeship programs.
A Quantitative Analysis of Retail Development 
and Neighborhood Change 
What is the relationship between retail development and neighborhood revital-
ization? As discussed previously, research suggests that retail growth may not
respond to changes in household income—in other words, as upper-income res-
idents move into an area, retail revitalization does not necessarily follow.137
50
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
135. Turner (2004).
136. Seidman (2001); Mitchell (2003).
137. Koebel (2002); Immergluck (1999).
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 50

===== PAGE 33 =====
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
51
Table 2-1. Retail Strategies, Goals, Impact, and Unknowns
Goal
Job creation
Vacancy rate
Private
investment 
Public
investment
Tax revenue
(and property
values)
Crime and
safety
Community
identity
Impact on retail revitalization
Commercial developments create
many jobs but often at a high
public investment per job
created. Revitalization programs
are more cost-effective but
generate only modest job growth.
Corridor programs have a
documented impact on occupancy
and appear to be an effective
strategy for filling vacant space.
Real estate projects all involve
direct private investment, and
there is some evidence that
commercial corridor programs
can lead to increased private
commercial investment as well.
Commercial development
projects frequently involve
increases in public investment in
the target area.
Increased retail activity clearly
increases sales tax revenue and
likely adds to property tax
revenue.
Revitalization programs can
clearly cause reductions in crime
within targeted commercial areas,
though some of this crime may
simply be moved to other areas.
The extent to which retail
development impacts the overall
image of the community and the
self-image of neighborhood
residents is still largely
unexplored.
Impact on neighborhood
revitalization
Residents are likely to
fill many of the new
jobs, particularly in
corridor projects.
However, job quality
is likely to be poor.
Declining vacancies
can alter perceptions
of an entire
neighborhood.
Retail revitalization
programs are
associated with an
increase in residential
building activity.
Infrastructure
development related
to commercial projects
can help revitalize
neighborhoods as well.
Retail revitalization
may increase
residential property
values as well as
commercial values.
From a sociological
perspective on
exclusion and a
planning perspective
on activity patterns,
local retail should help
improve individual and
community image.
Remaining questions
What are the multiplier
effects for local retail jobs?
What is the overall economic
impact of new retail jobs? To
what extent do neighborhood
retail jobs provide an avenue
to better jobs?
What is the impact of new
shopping center
development on
surrounding occupancy?
Do commercial real estate
projects lead to increased
private investment in
neighboring properties?
How does leveraging from
all sources work?
Is the increase enough to
offset investment in these
programs? Are tax increases
in one district offset by
decreases in nearby retail
districts?
Is the documented crime
reduction due to safety
programs or to the impact of
economic development (that
is, more stores, eyes on the
street, and so on)? What
impact do commercial real
estate projects have on crime?
How much does the
presence or absence of retail
influence who chooses to
live in the neighborhood?
Source: Authors’ analysis.
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 51

===== PAGE 34 =====
Research has yet to examine the converse: the type of neighborhood revitaliza-
tion that follows retail revitalization. Models suggest that job creation, private
and public investment, rising property values, better access to services, and
improved community identity will benefit residents, either directly or indirectly.
Yet, to what extent do these benefits accrue to existing residents instead of new-
comers? Will neighborhood revitalization take the form of transformation from
a low-income to a moderately low-income, mixed-income, or upper-income
neighborhood? Is retail best seen as a tool for attracting upper-income residents
or retaining and developing the middle class?
In the following discussion, we look in more detail at the association between
retail and neighborhood revitalization in the San Francisco Bay Area (the Bay
Area) by linking zip code–level data on retail change (measured in terms of
establishments, employees, sales, business mix, start-ups and deaths, and chains
or stand-alone stores) to census tract–level data on neighborhood change. One
of the most affluent regions in the country, with some of the highest income
inequality, the San Francisco Bay Area has unique concentrations of neighbor-
hoods either gentrifying or becoming more bipolar, and thus it offers the oppor-
tunity to look at a variety of patterns of retail revitalization. This pilot study
reveals a surprisingly strong relationship between retail revitalization and an
increase in middle-income households. 
Methodology
For this analysis, we start with recent definitions of neighborhood change from
George Galster and Jason Booza as well as Freeman to create a typology of
neighborhood change from 1990 to 2000 that include the following categories:
“bipolar,” “gentrified,” “more middle income,” “more lower income,” “more
upper income,” and “other.”138 We use the Neighborhood Change Database
(NCDB) developed by Geolytics, Inc. The NCDB provides 1990 census data
for normalized 2000 census tract definitions, allowing us to compare 1990
neighborhood characteristics with those of 2000. 
To construct the typology, we first had to convert the census data on house-
hold income from ten to sixteen irregular categorical variables (in 1990 and
2000) into consistent and meaningful groups. Following Galster, we create six
income categories that are relative to the area median income (AMI) for the ten-
county San Francisco Bay Area (which includes Santa Cruz).139 These categories
are the following: 
—very low income (less than 50 percent of AMI) 
—low income (50 percent to 79.9 percent of AMI) 
52
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
138. Freeman (2005); Galster and Booza (2007).
139. Booza, Cutsinger, and Galster (2006). 
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 52

===== PAGE 35 =====
—moderate income (80 percent to 99.9 percent of AMI) 
—high to moderate income (100 percent to 119.9 percent of AMI) 
—high income (120 percent to 149.9 percent of AMI) 
—very high income (150 percent of AMI and above) 
Following Berube and Tiffany and Galster and others, we use two different
methods to aggregate the finer (census) distribution into our six categories.140
First, we calculate the area median income using the linear interpolation
method.141 Then, for each census tract in the Bay Area, we calculate the share of
households in each of the census categories and their cumulative density.142 Gal-
ster and Booza identified neighborhoods that are bipolar using a formulation
based on the entropy index.143 The entropy index is based upon the thermody-
namic principle that any system will naturally trend toward evenness. The
amount of entropy in a system refers to how far along a system is in reaching
complete evenness. In the social sciences, researchers have developed an index
that ranges from 0 (lowest entropy, meaning that the entire population is in the
same category) to 1 (highest entropy, meaning that the population is evenly
spread among all categories) to measure entropy of a population across social
categories.144
In addition to this nominal entropy index, Galster and Booza constructed a
new ordinal entropy index and used the ratio of the two to measure bipolarity in a
tract, that is, the extent to which the population is disproportionately concen-
trated in the lowest and highest of the six income groups. There are 220 bipolar
tracts in the San Francisco Bay Area, about 16 percent of the total (see figure 2-2).
To determine the extent of gentrified neighborhoods, we use the compound
measure from Freeman, including tracts that have 
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
53
140. Berube and Tiffany (2004); Galster and others (2005). 
141. We chose to calculate this figure from the Geolytics tract-level data instead of using
the raw overall figure from the census summary files for consistency reasons. Specifically,
there is a small possibility of measurement error introduced by Geolytics’ spatial interpolation
of data from pre-2000 tract geography to a consistent geography. Comparing such interpo-
lated tract-level data to an externally obtained median could introduce additional error.
142. In aggregating to our six categories, we used linear interpolation to find breakpoints
within a census category for those at or below the median income. However, we assumed that
the distribution of households within the higher-income categories follows a Pareto distribu-
tion. This assumes that there is more density toward the lower cutoff.
143. Galster and Booza (2007).
144. This index, also called the Shannon-Weaver Index, is defined as
where H is the index, p is the proportion of the population in each category, and k is the
number of categories.
H
n
i
i
i
k
=
−∑π
π
ln
,
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 53

===== PAGE 36 =====
54
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
Figure 2-2. A Typology of Neighborhood Change in the San Francisco Bay Area,
1990–2000 
Source: Authors’ analysis.
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 54

===== PAGE 37 =====
—a median income less than the 40th percentile for the Bay Area as a whole
in 1990 ($33,670), 
—a proportion of housing built from 1980 to 2000 that is lower than the
proportion found at the 40th percentile for the Bay Area (10.7 percent), 
—a percentage increase in educational attainment (that is, some college) that
is greater than the median increase in educational attainment for the Bay Area
between 1990 and 2000 (7.4 percent), 
—an increase in real housing prices from 1995 to 2002 that is greater than
the median for the Bay Area (70.2 percent).
Freeman also includes a central city designation in his definition, but since
the Bay Area includes some neighborhoods that may be gentrifying outside of
its few central cities (such as Berkeley and Richmond), we excluded this crite-
rion. There are 102 gentrified tracts in the Bay Area, more than 7 percent of the
total. It is interesting that there is little overlap between the bipolar and gentri-
fied tracts, just as Galster and Booza have suggested: only three tracts are in both
categories (which we classified as gentrified).
We use a relatively simple calculation to identify neighborhoods that are
becoming more middle income, lower income, or upper income. Change in
middle-income neighborhoods occurs when the share of population in the two
middle-income categories is greater in 2000 than in 1990 and is more than 25
percent by 2000. Ten percent (141) of Bay Area tracts are becoming more mid-
dle income; just eight overlap with the gentrifying category, and we classified
them as gentrified. Likewise, lower-income change (448 tracts, 32 percent of the
total) occurs when the share in the two lower-income categories is greater in
2000, and the ending point is at least 25 percent, and upper-income change
(300 tracts, 21 percent) occurs when the share in the top two income categories
is greater in 2000, with a ending share of 25 percent or more. “Other” (185
tracts) is a residual category and seems to consist of a mix of tracts where there is
no systematic pattern of change.
Of these six forms of neighborhood change, three relate directly to neighbor-
hood revitalization. Neighborhoods that gentrify are shifting from low-income
to upper-income status, which is a common definition of revitalization. Neigh-
borhoods that become bipolar are gaining at both ends of the distribution,
simultaneously revitalizing and declining. Neighborhoods that become middle
income are revitalizing by gaining in the middle, often becoming more mixed
income in the process. Also of interest, but less pertinent to our discussion, are
two of the other neighborhood change types. Neighborhoods that become
upper income are in a sense revitalizing, but from a higher-income base than
that of the gentrifying neighborhoods. Neighborhoods becoming lower income
are actually declining. 
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
55
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 55

===== PAGE 38 =====
For the retail database, we use a private sector–generated time series database
of individual establishments, the National Establishment Time-Series database
(NETS), which combines annual Dun and Bradstreet entries into a time series
from 1990 through 2005. This database provides us with detailed data on indi-
vidual establishments over time, from establishment births (if post 1989)
through current operations or deaths. Whereas government sources can provide
some similar research opportunities, barriers to access to the disaggregated forms
of this data are high. Further, the NETS database offers access to detailed data
relevant for creating a clean database of retail establishments; for instance, we
can eliminate headquarters and identify chains.
In this analysis, we include a variety of retail and service establishments, most
locally oriented, based on a list of industry codes used by the Local Initiatives
Support Corporation’s commercial corridor program. To exclude outliers from
home-based businesses to national headquarters, we include only non–head-
quarter establishments having more than one employee and less than $50 mil-
lion in sales. We look at retail revitalization by zip code. Although the zip code
is not an ideal proxy for a retail market area, it can give a sense of retail opportu-
nities in and adjacent to neighborhoods. Since zip codes may include multiple
census tracts, we weight each zip code by the share of housing units in each cate-
gory of neighborhood change. For instance, 79 percent of San Francisco’s Mis-
sion District (94110) is becoming more gentrified, and 21 percent is becoming
purely upper income.
Findings
We first examine some simple indicators of retail revitalization—an increase
in retail and service establishments, in sales, and in employees—in relation to
neighborhood change. We focus in particular on the relationship of retail to
the neighborhoods that become more middle income, since this type of
change seems to be what most are referring to when they speak of neighbor-
hood revitalization.
Retail and service establishments grew generally throughout the region (by
about 16 percent), with much less growth in bipolarizing and gentrifying neigh-
borhoods and an overconcentration of growth in the neighborhoods becoming
middle income (table 2-2). This shows an association that might go either way:
the growth of middle-income groups might have attracted new establishments
to the area, or retail and service growth might have attracted new middle-
income residents. 
Of note, the difference in growth in total sales was quite dramatic across
neighborhoods, with just 19 percent and 23 percent growth in bipolarizing and
gentrifying neighborhoods, respectively, compared with 34 percent in neighbor-
56
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 56

===== PAGE 39 =====
hoods becoming middle income, 35 percent in neighborhoods becoming lower
income, and 38 percent in neighborhoods becoming upper income. Likewise,
growth in employment occurred disproportionately in these three types of
neighborhood change. Again, although it is not clear whether neighborhood
revitalization led retail revitalization or the reverse, it is interesting to note that
middle-income neighborhoods started with much higher average sales per estab-
lishment ($605,000 compared with $567,000 across all types). This provides
some evidence that a concentration of retail was attracting new middle-income
residents.
To analyze the chicken-and-egg question more directly, we next looked at
how neighborhoods that were middle income at the start, in 1990, fared in
terms of retail revitalization. Table 2-3 suggests that retailers are strongly
attracted to middle-income neighborhoods; areas that were middle income in
1990 saw more than 50 percent higher growth in both establishments and sales,
and almost twice as much growth in employment, relative to the corresponding
growth in non-middle-income neighborhoods. Thus, it seems likely that the
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
57
Table 2-2. Change in Establishments, Sales, and Employment, by 
Neighborhood-Change Type
Number of 
Percent change
Neighborhood-
establishments
1990–2005
change type
1990
2005
Percent change
Sales
Employment
Bipolar
21,466
23,629
10
19
3
Gentrified
9,564
10,544
10
23
9
Middle income
9,761
11,626
19
34
13
Lower income
32,193
38,068
18
35
12
Upper income
23,254
27,532
18
38
14
Other
12,783
14,934
17
32
10
Overall
111,012
128,339
16
34
12
Source: Authors’ analysis. 
Table 2-3. Change in Retail Establishments, Employment, and Sales for 
Middle-Income Neighborhoods in 1990 
Neighborhood-
Percent change 1990–2005
change type
Establishments
Employment
Sales
Middle income in 1990
23
20
48
Not middle income in 1990
16
11
31
Source: Authors’ analysis.
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 57

===== PAGE 40 =====
existing middle-income composition of the neighborhood in 1990 sent a signal
to retailers as much as did the influx of more middle-income residents in subse-
quent years 
Overall, these indicators suggest that retail revitalization is more likely to
occur in neighborhoods that are becoming middle income or upper income
than in those that become bipolar or gentrified (or vice versa: middle-income
neighborhood revitalization is occurring where retail revitalization is signifi-
cant). One explanation for this that warrants further exploration is whether
retailers respond more positively when a group, such as middle-income resi-
dents, concentrates, since retailers then know what market niche to fill. Another
theory is that neighborhoods that are becoming bipolar or gentrified are sending
some sort of negative or mixed signal to the market. That the “other” type, a
residual category with no clear change pattern, also experiences disproportion-
ately low revitalization suggests that this confused signal may be the problem. A
third possibility is that the types of areas that are becoming more middle income
or upper income are simply more likely to house the types of retail that are
growing, such as the big box store (because of urban design factors). 
Though the NETS data do not allow us to explore these theories systemati-
cally, they do offer potential when considering four other hypotheses: 
—Neighborhood revitalization is related to the share of independent estab-
lishments (as opposed to chains).
—Neighborhood revitalization is more likely to occur when there is a super-
market in the beginning period.
—Neighborhood revitalization occurs because of start-up businesses.
—Neighborhood revitalization is related to the mix of businesses in the
neighborhood.
As it turns out, middle-income change areas not only housed a disproportion-
ate share of chains at the beginning of the period, but also they were substantially
more likely to see new chain stores come in (table 2-4). This suggests that the
availability of chain stores may positively affect neighborhood revitalization.
However, areas in which the middle-income groups are growing do not need
a supermarket to do well. Overall, areas that had a supermarket in 1990 experi-
enced far greater sales growth; the one exception was neighborhoods with a
growing middle class, which experienced roughly the same sales growth even
without a local supermarket (table 2-5).
One reason that areas that are becoming middle income may fare better than
bipolarizing and gentrifying neighborhoods is their ability to attract start-up
businesses. Table 2-6 shows that start-ups are more attracted to middle-
income—and, interestingly, lower-income—neighborhoods than to bipolarizing
or gentrifying areas.
58
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 58

===== PAGE 41 =====
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
59
Table 2-4. Share of Chain Stores, by Neighborhood-Change Type, 1990–2005
Percent
Neighborhood-change type
1990
2005
Bipolar
8.7
11.0
Gentrified
8.9
11.6
Middle income
11.8
14.9
Lower income
10.4
13.2
Upper income
9.1
12.0
Other
9.7
12.7
Overall
9.4
12.3
Source: Authors’ analysis.
Table 2-5. Change in Average Sales, by Neighborhood-Change Type with and
without a Supermarket, 1990–2005 
Percent
Change in average sales, 1990–2005
Neighborhood-change type
With supermarket in 1990
Without supermarket in 1990
Bipolarizing
42
9
Gentrifying
41
11
Becoming middle income
17
17
Becoming lower income
34
20
Becoming upper income
44
19
Other
42
17
Overall
35
16
Source: Authors’ analysis.
Table 2-6. Share of Start-ups, by Neighborhood-Change Type
Percent
When establishment started
Neighborhood-change type
Before 1950
1951–90
1991–2000
2001–05
Bipolar
4
54
33
9
Gentrified
6
52
34
8
Middle income
3
50
35
12
Lower income
4
51
34
11
Upper income
4
51
35
10
Other
4
51
34
11
Overall
4
51
34
10
Source: Authors’ analysis.
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 59

===== PAGE 42 =====
Finally, areas that are becoming middle income tend to have a similar retail
and service mix compared with that of other neighborhoods, with similar shifts
to services and nonprofits from 1990 to 2005. However, they tend to be more
diverse across the sectors: based on an entropy index ranging from 0 (perfectly
homogeneous) to 1 (perfectly diverse), the neighborhood-change types score
from a high of 0.90 for middle-income areas to a low of 0.87 for bipolarizing
and gentrifying neighborhoods.
In sum, this exploration suggests that the way the retail sector changes is
closely related to how the neighborhood changes, with middle-income revital-
ization most closely associated with retail revitalization. Further research should
explore the dynamic in more detail.
Conclusion and Thoughts for Further Research
If neighborhood retail development contributes to broader community revital-
ization, it seems unlikely that it does so by dramatically increasing the employ-
ment or wage levels, the labor force participation rates, or the overall level of
financial assets, although these changes can help. It seems that certain kinds of
public investment in retail development (particularly corridor programs) can
catalyze further private commercial development and, in at least some situa-
tions, this public investment can be recaptured through increased tax revenues.
However, none of this activity indicates that there is a much broader impact on
the well-being of the surrounding community. It may not even have a positive
impact on the local economy as a whole, since the retail activity generated by
new commercial development, business attraction programs, or corridor revital-
ization programs may simply be shifting economic activity between places.
Despite this, the persistent call for these programs is itself a strong indication
that there are real needs to which these programs are effectively responding—
even if those needs are not always that well articulated by program advocates. 
If retail development has large-scale impacts on community economic health,
it may be through more indirect outcomes including changes in internal and
external perceptions of the neighborhood and ultimately changes in neighbor-
hood residential composition. Because neighborhood-level retail growth is
closely associated with middle-income growth, retail development may be a key
component to building the kind of stable mixed-income communities that are
most likely to positively affect existing low-income residents. However, existing
studies of the effectiveness of neighborhood retail development strategies have
not explored these broader impacts.
Rather than assuming that any neighborhood improvement leads ultimately
to displacement of the poor, this research suggests that more than one kind of
60
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 60

===== PAGE 43 =====
neighborhood change is possible. Further research is necessary to establish
whether low-income residents face better outcomes living in middle-income or
bipolar neighborhoods, but it seems likely that middle-income neighborhoods
would offer more amenities because of their ability to attract more retail growth.
It is unclear to what extent this association is due to retailers following middle-
income households as opposed to middle-income consumers strongly preferring
locations with nearby retail. It seems likely that both factors play a role, though
certainly a community that starts out as middle income sends a clear signal of a
sound investment opportunity to retailers. The limited time frame of the NETS
data (1990 to 2005) limits our ability to explore whether the retail or the resi-
dential growth comes first. 
If outcomes for the poor are tied to the specific character of neighborhood
change, then further research might suggest specific retail development strate-
gies that most likely will benefit the poor and lead to stable mixed-income com-
munities without contributing to displacement of the poor. This research sug-
gests that chain stores are associated with neighborhoods that are becoming
more middle income—and thus, attracting chain stores may be one way to sta-
bilize the neighborhood. Further research is needed to better understand, for
example, whether certain types of establishments (restaurants, bars, and so
forth) are more likely to contribute to gentrification while others (drug stores,
groceries, and the like) lead more often to middle-income neighborhoods. 
We have explored the relationship between neighborhood demographic
change and the subsequent change in retail activity, but further research might
allow us to better understand the relationship between the beginning level of
retail and subsequent demographic changes. Does the presence or absence of
retail (or, again, certain types of retail) lead to subsequent changes in income
composition?
In spite of the recent academic literature and public effort focused on better
documenting retail demand in low-income neighborhoods, it may be the case
that demand is not the key factor that determines retail locations. This research
suggests, in fact, that the existing composition of the neighborhood matters,
and shifts in demand, such as increases in the high- and low-end of the markets,
may be confusing retailers. If much of the neighborhood-level retail growth is
due to the competitive dynamics between neighborhoods, with activity shifting
between nearby locations, what accounts for these shifts? Future research should
focus more on the contribution of supply-side factors, particularly business mix,
to retail location decisions. To generate more meaningful policy implications, it
will be necessary to drill down to the corridor level, rather than analyzing busi-
ness patterns at the zip code level as is most commonly done in this type of
research. 
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
61
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 61

===== PAGE 44 =====
To understand these questions and craft more effective policy interventions,
better data are necessary. The NETS data are a convenient source of the address-
based longitudinal data that are required to understand retail markets, but they
fall short in several regards. First, because this database is developed by a private
vendor, its cost is prohibitive for many researchers. Second, researchers report
that its employment numbers may be inaccurate.145 Finally, research on retail
revitalization needs to take into account many different outcomes, including
changes in crime, tax revenue, vacancy rates, indirect investment, and other
indicators. To advance this field, it would be helpful to have government agen-
cies, such as the Small Business Administration and the Department of Housing
and Urban Development, work together to collect data on these revitalization
outcomes at the level of the address and neighborhood. Until the collection of
data becomes more systematic, our studies of revitalization will remain mostly
speculative. 
62
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
145. Panel discussion on “Employment Dynamics, Firm Movement, and Establishment-
Level Time-Series Data,” Association of Collegiate Schools of Planning Annual Conference,
Chicago, July 9, 2008. For the Dun and Bradstreet data, phone surveyors ask employers to
estimate numbers of employees, and if they decline to provide new data, surveyors simply use
the total from the previous year. Further, employers may give a total number of employees,
rather than the number employed at one specific location.
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 62

===== PAGE 45 =====
References
Abell, Barbara. 2002. Overcoming Obstacles to CDC Supermarket Development: A Guide.
Washington: National Congress for Community Economic Development. 
———. 1998. Supermarket Development: CDC’s and Inner City Economic Development.
Washington: National Congress for Community Economic Development. 
Alwitt, Linda F., and Thomas D. Donley. 1997. “Retail Stores in Poor Urban Neighbor-
hoods.” Journal of Consumer Affairs 31, no. 1: 139–64. 
Artz, Georgeanne, and Kenneth Stone. 2006. “Analyzing the Impact of Wal-Mart Super-
centers on Local Food Store Sales.” American Journal of Agricultural Economics 88, no. 5:
1296–303. 
Asabere, Paul K., and Forrest E. Huffman. 1991. “Historic Districts and Land Values.” Jour-
nal of Real Estate Research 6, no. 1: 1–7. 
Ball, Jennifer. 2002. Street Vending (PAS 509): A Survey of Ideas and Lessons for Planners.
Chicago: American Planning Association Planning Advisory Service. 
Basker, Emek. 2005. “Job Creation or Destruction? Labor-Market Effects of Wal-Mart
Expansion.” Review of Economics and Statistics 87: 174–83. 
Bates, Timothy. 1997. Race, Self-Employment, and Upward Mobility: An Illusive American
Dream. Johns Hopkins University Press. 
Bernhardt, Annette. 1999. “The Future of Low-Wage Jobs: Case Studies in the Retail Indus-
try.” IEE Working Paper 10. New York: Institute on Education and the Economy. 
Berube, Alan, and Thacher Tiffany. 2004. The Shape of the Curve: Household Income Distribu-
tions in U.S. Cities, 1979–1999. Living Cities Census Series. Brookings.
Birch, Eugenie L. 2005. “Who Lives Downtown.” Brookings, Metropolitan Policy Program. 
Booza, Jason, Jackie Cutsinger, and George Galster. 2006. Where Did They Go? The Decline of
Middle-Income Neighborhoods in Metropolitan America. Brookings.
Boston Consulting Group Inc. 1998. “The Business Case for Pursuing Retail Opportunities
in the Inner City.” Boston: Initiative for a Competitive Inner City. 
Briffault, Richard. 1999. “A Government for Our Time: Business Improvement Districts and
Urban Governance.” Columbia Law Review 99, no. 2: 265–477. 
Carlson, Neil. 2003. “A Road Map to Revitalizing Urban Neighborhood Business Districts.”
New York: Local Initiatives Support Corporation (October). 
Chung, Chanjin, and Samuel L. Myers Jr. 1999. “Do the Poor Pay More for Food? An Analy-
sis of Grocery Store Availability and Food Price Disparities.” Journal of Consumer Affairs
33, no. 2: 276–96. 
Civic Economics. 2002. Economic Impact Analysis: A Case Study, Local Merchants vs. Chain
Retailers, Executive Summary. Report prepared for LiveableCity Austin and Austin Inde-
pendent Business Alliance. Austin (December). 
Clampet-Lundquist, Susan. 2004. “Moving Over or Moving Up? Short-Term Gains and
Losses for Relocated HOPE VI Families.” Cityscape 7, no. 1: 57–80. 
Clifton, Kelly J. 2003. “Examining Travel Choices of Low-Income Populations: Issues, Meth-
ods, and New Approaches.” Paper presented at the 10th International Conference on
Travel Behaviour Research. Lucerne, Switzerland, August. 
———. 2004. “Mobility Strategies and Food Shopping for Low-Income Families: A Case
Study.” Journal of Planning Education and Research 23, no. 4: 387–401. 
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
63
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 63

===== PAGE 46 =====
Coyle, Deirdre M. 2007. “Realizing the Inner City Retail Opportunity: Progress and New
Directions, An Analysis of Retail Markets in America’s Inner Cities.” Economic Develop-
ment Journal 6, no. 1: 6–14. 
Crane, Randall, and Michael Manville. 2008. “People or Place? Revisiting the Who versus the
Where in Community Economic Development.” Working Paper. Cambridge, Mass.: Lin-
coln Institute of Land Policy.
Curley, Alexandra M. 2006. “HOPE and Housing: The Effects of Relocation on Movers’
Economic Stability, Social Networks, and Health.” PhD dissertation, Boston University. 
Dane, Suzanne G., ed. 1988. New Directions for Urban Main Streets. Washington: National
Trust for Historic Preservation.
Dardia, Michael. 1998. “Subsidizing Redevelopment in California.” San Francisco: Public
Policy Institute of California.
Dickens, William T. 1999. “Rebuilding Urban Labor Markets: What Community Develop-
ment Can Accomplish.” In Urban Problems and Community Development, edited by
Ronald F. Ferguson, pp. 381–436. Brookings.
Dixon, Timothy J. 2005. “The Role of Retailing in Urban Regeneration.” Local Economy 20,
no. 2: 168–82.
Dowall, David E., and others. 1994. “Urban Residential Redevelopment in the People’s
Republic of China.” Urban Studies 31, no. 9: 1497–516.
Dunford, Jenny. 2006. “Under-served Markets.” Local Economy 21, no. 1: 73–77.
Eisinger, Peter K. 1988. The Rise of the Entrepreneurial State: State and Local Economic Devel-
opment Policy in the United States. University of Wisconsin Press.
Fogelson, Robert M. 2001. Downtown: Its Rise and Fall, 1880–1950. Yale University Press.
Food Marketing Institute. 1993. Joint Venture in the Inner City—Supermarket General Corpo-
ration and New Community Corporation. Washington.
Freeman, Lance. 2004. “There Goes the Hood: The Meaning of Gentrification to Long-
Term Residents.” Paper presented at annual meeting of American Sociological Association.
San Francisco, August.
———. 2005. “Displacement or Succession? Residential Mobility in Gentrifying Neighbor-
hoods.” Urban Affairs Review 40, no. 4: 463–91.
———. 2006. There Goes the Hood: Views of Gentrification from the Ground Up. Temple Uni-
versity Press.
Freeman, Lance, and Frank Braconi. 2004. “Gentrification and Displacement in New York
City.” Journal of the American Planning Association 70, no. 1: 39–52.
Frieden, Bernard J., and Lynne Sagalyn. 1989. Downtown, Inc.: How America Builds Cities.
MIT Press.
Galster, George, and Jason Booza. 2007. “The Rise of the Bipolar Neighborhood.” Journal of
American Planning Association 73, no. 4: 421–35.
Galster, George, and others. 2005. Low-Income Households in Mixed-Income Neighborhoods:
Extent, Trends, and Determinants. Report prepared for the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development. Washington: HUD. 
Goering, John, and Judith D. Feins. 2003. Choosing a Better Life: Evaluating the Moving to
Opportunity Social Experiment. Washington: Urban Institute Press.
Goetz, Edward G. 2002. “Forced Relocation vs Voluntary Mobility: The Effects of Dispersal
Programs on Households.” Housing Studies 17, no. 1: 107–23.
64
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 64

===== PAGE 47 =====
Goodman, Michael D., and Daniel J. Monti. 1999. “Corporately Sponsored Redevelopment
Campaigns And The Social Stability of Urban Neighborhoods: St. Louis Revisited.” Jour-
nal of Urban Affairs 21, no. 1: 101–27.
Gross, Jill S. 2005. “Business Improvement Districts in New York City’s Low-Income and
High-Income Neighborhoods.” Economic Development Quarterly 19, no. 2: 174–89. 
Hernandez, Manuel. 2001. “The Impact of Commercial Development on Inner City Revital-
ization: An Analysis of Projects in Boston.” Master’s thesis, Department of Urban Studies
and Planning, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
Houstoun, Lawerence O., Jr. 2004. “Business Improvement Districts.” Economic Development
Journal 3, no. 3: 48–54.
Hoyt, Lorlene M. 2005. “Do Business Improvement District Organizations Make a Differ-
ence?” Journal of Planning Education and Research 25, no. 2: 185–99.
Immergluck, Daniel. 1999. “Neighborhoods, Race, and Capital: The Effects of Residential
Change on Commercial Investment Patterns.” Urban Affairs Review 34, no. 3: 397–411.
Initiative for a Competitive Inner City. 2002. The Changing Models of Inner City Grocery
Retailing. Boston.
International Council of Shopping Centers. 2004. Developing Successfull Retail in Underserved
Urban Markets. Report produced in cooperation with Business for Social Responsibility.
New York.
Jacobus, Rick, and Maureen Hickey. 2007. “Commercial Revitalization Planning Guide: A
Toolkit for Community Based Organizations.” New York: Local Initiatives Support Cor-
poration, Center for Commercial Revitalization.
Johnson, Craig L., and Joyce Y. Man. 2001. Tax Increment Financing and Economic Develop-
ment: Uses, Structures, and Impact. State University of New York Press.
Joseph, Mark. 2006. “Is Mixed-Income Development an Antidote to Urban Poverty?” Hous-
ing Policy Debate 17, no. 2: 209–34.
Kelley, Steve. 1996. “The Main Street Program in Mississippi.” Economic Development Review
14, no. 3: 56.
Kennedy, Maureen, and Paul Leonard. 2001. “Dealing with Neighborhood Change: A
Primer on Gentrification and Policy Choices.” Discussion Paper prepared for the Brook-
ings Institution Center on Urban and Metropolitan Policy and PolicyLink (www.poli-
cylink.org/pdfs/BrookingsGentrification.pdf).
Koebel, Theodore C. 2002. “Analyzing Neighborhood Retail and Service Change in Six
Cities.” Blacksburg, Va.: Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Center for
Housing Research.
Levy, Diane K., and Mark Woolley. 2007. “Relocation Is Not Enough: Employment Barriers
among HOPE VI Families.” Policy Brief 6. Washington: Urban Institute.
Listokin, David, Barbara Listokin, and Michael Lahr. 1998. “The Contributions of Historic
Preservation to Housing and Economic Development.” Housing Policy Debate 9, no. 3:
431–78. 
Loukaitou-Sideris, Anastasia. 2000. “Revisiting Inner-City Strips: A Framework for Commu-
nity and Economic Development.” Economic Development Quarterly 14, no. 2: 165–81.
Mari Gallagher Research and Consulting Group. 2006. “Examining the Impact of Food
Deserts on Public Health in Chicago.” Chicago: LaSalle Bank. 
Marketek, Inc. 2000. Economic Impact Assessment of Fruitvale Main Street Initiative. Report
prepared for the Local Initiatives Support Corporation. New York: LISC. 
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
65
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 65

===== PAGE 48 =====
Markusen, Ann R., ed. 2007. Reining in the Competition for Capital. Kalamazoo, Mich.:
Upjohn Institute for Employment Research.
Mason, Randall. 2005. “Economics and Historic Preservation: A Guide and Review of the
Literature.” Brookings.
McKinnish, Terra, Randall P. Walsh, and Kirk White. 2008. “Who Gentrifies Low-Income
Neighborhoods?” NBER Working Paper W14036. Cambridge, Mass.: National Bureau of
Economic Research (http://ssrn.com/abstract=1139352). 
Medoff, Peter, and Holly Sklar. 1994. Streets of Hope: The Fall and Rise of an Urban Neighbor-
hood. Boston: South End Press.
Min, Pyong Gap, and Mehdi Bozorgmehr. 2000. “Immigrant Entrepreneurship and Business
Patterns: A Comparison of Koreans and Iranians in Los Angeles.” International Migration
Review 34, no. 3: 707–38.
Mitchell, Jerry. 2003. “Business Improvement Districts and Innovative Service Delivery.” In
New Ways of Doing Business, edited by Mark A. Abramson and Ann M. Kieffaber, pp.
217–48. Lanham, Md.: Rowman & Littlefield.
Moore, Latetia V., and Ana V. Diez Roux. 2006. “Associations of Neighborhood Characteris-
tics with the Location and Type of Food Stores.” American Journal of Public Health 96, no.
2: 325–31.
Newman, Kathe, and Elvin Wyly. 2006. “The Right to Stay Put, Revisited: Gentrification
and Resistance to Displacement in New York City.” Urban Studies 43, no. 1: 23–57.
Nunn, Samuel. 2001. “Planning for Inner-City Retail Development.” Journal of the American
Planning Association 67, no. 2: 159–72.
Nyden, Phillip, and others. 1997. Building Community: Social Science in Action. Thousand
Oaks, Calif.: Pine Forge Press.
Oakley, Dierdre, and Hui-Shien Tsao. 2006. “A New Way of Revitalizing Distressed Urban
Communities? Assessing the Impact of the Federal Urban Empowerment Zone Program.”
Journal of Urban Affairs 28, no. 5: 443–71.
Ong, Paul M., and Doug Houston. 2002. “The 2000 Census Undercount in Los Angles
County.” University of California—Los Angeles, School of Public Policy Social Research.
Pawasarat, John, and Lois M. Quinn. 2001. “Exposing Urban Legends: The Real Purchasing
Power of Central City Neighborhoods.” Brookings, Center on Urban and Metropolitan
Policy.
Porter, Michael E. 1995. “The Competitive Advantage of the Inner City.” Harvard Business
Review 73, no. 3: 55–71.
Pothukuchi, Kameshwari. 2005. “Attracting Supermarkets to Inner-City Neighborhoods:
Economic Development Outside the Box.” Economic Development Quarterly 19, no. 3:
232–44.
Raja, Samina, Changxing Ma, and Pavan Yadav. 2008. “Beyond Food Deserts: Measuring
and Mapping Racial Disparities in Neighborhood Food Environments.” Journal of Plan-
ning Education and Research 27, no. 4: 469–82.
Rauch, James E. 1996. “Trade and Networks: An Application to Minority Retail Entrepre-
neurship.” Working Paper. New York: Russell Sage Foundation.
Rich, Michael J., and Robert P. Stoker. 2007. “Governance and Urban Revitalization: Lessons
from the Urban Empowerment Zones Initiative.” Paper prepared for Conference on a
Global Look at Urban and Regional Governance: The State-Market-Civic Nexus. Emory
University, January 18–19. 
66
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 66

===== PAGE 49 =====
Rosenbaum, James E., and Susan J. Popkin. 1991 “Employment and Earnings of Low-
Income Blacks Who Move to Middle-Class Suburbs.” In The Urban Underclass, edited by
Christopher Kencks and Paul Peterson, pp. 342–56. Brookings.
Rubinowitz, Leonard S. and James E. Rosenbaum. 2000. Crossing the Class and Color Lines:
From Public Housing to White Suburbia. University of Chicago Press.
Sagalyn, Lynne. 1989. “Measuring Financial Returns When the City Acts as an Investor:
Boston and Faneuil Hall Marketplace.” Real Estate Issue 14, no. 2: 7–15.
Seidman, Karl F. 1999. Community Business Network: An Evaluation of Program Outcomes and
Operations. Cambridge, Mass.: Massachusetts Association of Community Development
Corporations.
———. 2001. Wanted: Solutions for America. Final Research Report, Boston Main Streets
Program. Prepared for Pew Partnership and Rutgers University Center for Urban and
Regional Policy.
———. 2002. “Urban Inner City Commercial Revitalization: A Literature Review.” Unpub-
lished paper. MIT, Department of Urban Studies and Planning (June).
———. 2003. “Inner-City Commercial Revitalization: Applying the Main Street Model.”
Unpublished paper. MIT, Department of Urban Studies and Planning (March).
———. 2004. Revitalizing Commerce for American Cities: A Practitioner’s Guide to Urban
Main Street Programs. Washington: Fannie Mae Foundation. 
Servon, Lisa J., and Edwin Melendez. 2006. “The Evolution of Urban Community Develop-
ment Corporations.” Unpublished paper. The New School, Community Development
Research Center.
Short, Anne, Julie Guthman, and Samuel Raskin. 2007. “Food Deserts, Oases, or Mirages?
Small Markets and Community Food Security in the San Francisco Bay Area.” Journal of
Planning Education and Research 26, no. 3: 352–64.
Smith, Neil. 1996. The New Urban Frontier: Gentrification and the Revanchist City. London:
Routledge.
Stokes, Robert J. 2007. “Business Improvement Districts and Small Business Advocacy: The
Case of San Diego’s Citywide BID Program.” Economic Development Quarterly 21, no. 3:
278–91.
Stone, Kenneth E. 1997. “Impact of the Wal-Mart Phenomenon on Rural Communities.” In
Increasing Understanding of Public Problems and Policies, pp. 189–200. Oak Brook, Ill.:
Farm Foundation.
Teitz, Michael. 1989. “Neighborhood Economics: Local Communities and Regional Mar-
kets.” Economic Development Quarterly 3, no. 2: 111–22.
Turner, Robyne S. 2004. “Troost Avenue Revival: Breathing New Life into Neighborhood
Commercial Corridors.” Paper presented at annual meeting of American Political Science
Association. Portland, November. 
Turney, Kristen, and others. 2006. “Neighborhood Effects on Barriers to Employment:
Results from a Randomized Housing Mobility Experiment in Baltimore.” In Brookings-
Wharton Papers on Urban Affairs, edited by Gary Burtless and Janet Rothenberg Pack, pp.
137–87. Brookings .
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). 1999. New Markets: The
Untapped Retail Buying Power in America’s Inner Cities. Government Printing Office.
U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO). 2006. Empowerment Zone and Enterprise
Community Program: Improvements Occurred in Communities, but the Effect of the Program
Is Unclear. Report GAO-06-727. 
Karen Chapple and Rick Jacobus
67
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 67

===== PAGE 50 =====
———. 2007. New Markets Tax Credit Appears to Increase Investment by Investors in Low-
Income Communities, but Opportunities Exist to Better Monitor Compliance. Report GAO-
07-296. 
Walker, Christopher, and others. 2002. Public-Sector Loans to Private-Sector Businesses: An
Assessment of HUD-Supported Local Economic Development Lending Activities. Report to
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.Washington: Urban Institute.
Weber, Rachel. 2003. “Equity and Entrepreneurialism: The Impact of Tax Increment Financ-
ing on School Finance.” Urban Affairs Review 38, no. 5: 619–44.
Weissbourd, Robert, and Christopher Berry. 1999. “The Market Potential of Inner-City
Neighborhoods: Filling the Information Gap.” Brookings.
Wilder, Margaret G., and Barry M. Rubin. 1988. “Targeted Redevelopment through Urban
Enterprise Zones.” Journal of Urban Affairs 10, no. 1: 1–17.
Williams, Colin C., and Jan Windebank. 2002. “The ‘Excluded Consumer’: A Neglected
Aspect of Social Exclusion?” Policy and Politics 30, no. 4: 501–13.
Wilson, James, and George Kelling. 1982. “Broken Windows.” Atlantic Monthly 249, no. 3:
29–38.
Wilson, William J. 1987. The Truly Disadvantaged: The Inner City, the Underclass, and Public
Policy. University of Chicago Press.
Wyly, Elvin K., and Daniel J. Hammel. 1999. “Islands of Decay in Seas of Renewal: Urban
Policy and the Resurgence of Gentrification.” Housing Policy Debate 10: 711–71.
———. 2004. “Gentrification, Segregation and Discrimination in the American Urban Sys-
tem.” Environment and Planning A 36: 1215–241.
68
Retail Trade as a Route to Neighborhood Revitalization
02-0297-9 ch02  3/31/09  4:55 PM  Page 68
